yooo, so pallas athena basically slipped a big-brain idea into penelope’s head:
she decides to bust out big daddy odysseus’s god-tier bow and set up an archery challenge
for all these cringe suitors thirsting for her hand—zero clue they’re dooming themselves.

sis climbed up the high stairs, snagged the keys with that swanky ivory handle,
made for the back chamber where all her hubby’s prize loot was stacked (gold, bronze,
and that glimmering steel). among them? the glorious back-curved bow and a quiver
stuffed with hella lethal arrows—the same rig odysseus once got from iphitus,
some real one he met back in the day. that friend ended up murdered by hercules,
cuz herc had zero chill, basically ignoring xenia and the gods. savage.

anyway, penelope stood on the threshold and carefully unhooked the polished doors.
they creaked loud like a big bull bellowing on a meadow—super dramatic.
she stepped up, took her man’s bow from the peg, sat, and had a full emotional meltdown,
crying all over it. eventually she cooled off, grabbed the quiver, and went down
to where the suitors were, her maids lugging a basket of iron axes behind her.

once in the main hall, she posted up, half-shading her face with her sleek veil,
and announced: “listen up, you clowns burning through my absent husband’s wine and bread:
we’re doing an archery game, big *w* prize. whoever can string odysseus’s bow the smoothest
and shoot an arrow clean through these twelve axe heads in a row,
i’ll marry that boi and ditch this lit mansion—though that kinda tears me up.”

eumaeus (the swineherd) started tearing up at the sight of the bow,
same with philoetius (the cattle guy). antinous was like, “bruh, shut it with the tears.
that’s so cringe. carry the bow so we can get this competition rolling.”

inside antinous’s heart, though, he was big sure none of them would easily
manage that legendary rig. odysseus had insane biceps.
in fact, ironically, antinous would be the first to catch an arrow from odysseus
once the chaos popped off. zero self-awareness vibes.

telemachus piped up, “dang, i guess i’m a fool? mom’s so set on marrying some other dude.
but hey, let's get it. there’s no woman in greece as a1 as penelope, so i see why y’all thirst.
i might even test the bow myself. if i can do it, that’s a major flex.”

he tried three times but couldn’t quite string it. on his fourth shot,
odysseus signaled him to dial it back—no need to blow cover.
telemachus was like, “welp, guess i need more arm day. okay, suitors, your turn.”

leiodes, the suitors’ priest-type dude, tried first but failed so hard
it almost snapped his delicate hands. he went all doomer, “this bow’s too savage;
it’ll kill your vibe if you can’t string it. might as well go chase another baddie.”

antinous clapped back, called leiodes a flop, and told melanthius to fetch a brazier,
some lube (lol) for the string, so maybe they could warm and grease it to bend easier.
everyone tried and everyone flopped: no one was strong enough.

meanwhile, outside in the yard, odysseus stepped out with eumaeus and philoetius,
revealed himself on the dl by showing them his old boar-scar from parnassus.
they lost their minds, hugging and sobbing. it was a full hallmark moment.
odysseus was like, “listen, keep it hush, help me lock this place down,
and when i give the nod, pass me the bow so i can dust these fools.”

back inside, eurymachus tried warming the string over the fire, but still no luck.
he raged, “omg, guess we’re weaker than that legendary man.”
antinous was like, “chill, we’ll try again tomorrow; it’s a holiday for apollo anyway.”
then sly odysseus said, “yo, let me get a shot, see if these old arms still got it.”

they freaked: “boy, no way this random beggar’s beating us at the bow. shut your mouth.”
antinous threatened to ship him off to king echetos, the biggest savage around,
if he tried to meddle. penelope scolded him: “not nice, dude.
the stranger’s got a right to test it.” eurymachus whined about public shame if a hobo
succeeded where they failed. penelope brushed that off, but telemachus cut in,
“mom, enough—this is *my* show. i run the bows here.” she got the hint and left for her room,
weeping for odysseus some more, until athena gave her sleep.

the suitors started jeering at eumaeus when he went to bring the bow to odysseus,
but telemachus snapped: “bring it, or i’ll fling you out with stones. i’m not playing.”
so eumaeus set the bow in odysseus’s hands. philoetius locked the courtyard gate,
eurycleia locked the hall’s doors. odysseus eyed the bow up and down,
making sure it wasn’t eaten by worms or messed up from years of storage.

the suitors giggled, throwing side-eyes: “this hobo’s just bow-fetish or something.”
but then, like a master harper stringing his lyre with zero sweat,
odysseus easily bent and strung the bow. the string sang a sweet note,
and zeus thundered overhead like, “yup, i’m in.” odysseus beamed.
he plucked an arrow from the quiver, drew back, and pinged it clean
through all twelve axe heads, perfect shot. suitors went ashen, jaws on the floor.

then odysseus nodded to telemachus, like, “look, bro, the beggar ain’t so mid after all.
time to feast on these suitors’ fear.” telemachus strapped on his sword, took position.
the final showdown was about to pop off, and the suitors had no clue they were dead men walking.
