the project gutenberg ebook of simple sabotage field manual

yo yo yo this ish is for all u npcs and vibes anywhere in the united states and pretty much everywhere else af – free like a dank meme with zero fees and capless restrictions, deadass. u can copy it, yeet it to your squad, or remix it under the project gutenberg license deets online at www.gutenberg.org (link in bio, fr fr) – if u ain’t chillin’ in the us, check your local laws bc we ain’t tryna get caught in 4k, lol.

title: simple sabotage field manual  
author: united states. office of strategic services  
release date: august 4, 2008 [ebook #26184] – vintage drip  
most recently updated: february 5, 2025 – glitch update incoming  
language: english, duh  
credits: produced by: david reed – big gigachad energy

*** start of the project gutenberg ebook simple sabotage field manual – let’s get skibidi wild, fam ***

[illustration] [images/cover.jpg]


simple sabotage field manual


office of strategic services

----------------------------------------

oss reproduction branch  
simple sabotage field manual  
strategic services  
(provisional – lowkey, sus vibes)  
strategic services field manual no. 3 – full on chaos mode

office of strategic services  
washington, d. c. – epic base  
17 january 1944 – retro drip, lol

this simple sabotage field manual strategic services (provisional) is dropped for mad info and guidance 4 all the peeps down to lowkey pwn enemy ops – it’s the base doctrine for strategic services training on this lit subject, no cap.

contents of this epic manual gotta be locked down tighter than your dm’s – stay off the unauthorized download clock, k?

instructions might be split into separate pamphlets or leaflets by ops category, but they gotta be circulated with major caution and never just spammed, ya feel? use ‘em as the base for local radio blasts in special cases or as ordered by the theater commander – that’s the tea.

ar 380-5 (on secret docs handling – big brain alert) stays in effect for this manual, so obey that.

[illustration] [images/img01.jpg]

william j. donovan – the original mastermind, deadass


contents

1. introduction  
2. possible effects  
3. motivating the saboteur  
4. tools, targets, and timing  
5. specific suggestions for simple sabotage


1. introduction

alright squad, this paper’s all about breakin’ down what simple sabotage is, droppin’ deets on its possible cray effects, and servin’ up suggestions to get off your ass and execute it. yeah, we’re talkin’ full-on chaos here.

sabotage rolls from high-tech coup de main flexes that need boss-level planning and specially-trained operatives (like those elite meme lords) 2 the basic, everyday ones that any normie citizen-saboteur can pull off. we’re mostly vibin’ on the latter – no fancy weapons or prepped gear needed. it’s a citizen’s game, whether u’re flyin’ solo or not, and all dis without causing too much drama, injury, or catchin’ heat – legit low-risk, on god.

when it comes to wreckin’ stuff, our citizen-saboteur’s arsenal is salt, nails, candles, pebbles, thread, or any random bits u’d normally have stashed at home or at work. think kitchen shelf, trash pile, and your regular tool kit – those are your weaponized resources in this wild sabotage sesh. targets? basically any chill object u got free access to day in, day out.

now, a second flavor of simple sabotage happens with zero destructive tools – it messes up things through indirect glitchy moves. it’s all about triggering those universal moments when people make faulty decisions, throw noncooperative vibes, and influence others to join the chaos. like putting your toolbox in the wrong spot or just bein’ extra surly 4 no reason. that’s what we call the “human element” – and lemme tell u, it’s a prime cause of accidents, delays, and a whole lotta general obstructions, even when everything’s supposed to be chill. the potential saboteur should scope out which type of mistakes and ops are the norm and then dial up that “margin for error” to maximum virality.


2. possible effects

simple sabotage acts are poppin off all over europe, no cap, deadass. we gotta level up their efficiency, lower their detectability, and boost their numbers – think thousands of citizen-saboteurs stackin’ up chaos as an effective weapon against enemy forces. imagine slashin’ tires, drainin’ fuel tanks, startin’ fires, kickin’ off beef, stuntin’ like total scrubs, short-circuiting electrics, or even wearin’ down machine parts – all that messy energy will waste enemy materials, manpower, and time. on a massive scale, simple sabotage drags the enemy’s war effort into nonstop lag mode.

simple sabotage might also drop secondary vibes of value – it’ll harass and demoralize enemy admins and cops, like a ceaseless stream of glitchy harassment. plus, if the citizen-saboteur rakes in some wins, u might see them recruiting other kinda rebels for next-level operations. and when natives in enemy territory start pullin’ this off openly, they might end up gettin’ their identity locked in with the united nations war effort, jumpin’ in full force during allied invasions and occupations – savage, right?


3. motivating the saboteur

gettin’ citizens hyped to actively sabotage and stick with it over the long haul is a major hustle, fam.

simple sabotage is usually something a citizen does on his own hustle – no squad orders here. these destructive acts don’t bring instant clout or cash and can totally be against their built-in “save that coin” mindset. like, purposefully being stupid goes straight against human nature. so our dude often needs pressure, hype, or mad cert vibes along with all the deets and suggestions for pullin’ off simple sabotage that actually work.

(1) personal motives

(a) the average citizen probs ain’t got an immediate personal motive to drop sabotage bombs. instead, u gotta have him foresee some indirect gain – think enemy evacuation or booting out the ruling government clout. the gains need to be spelled out specific af for his area – like, “yo, when commissioner x and his deputies y and z get yeeted, bans on obnoxious orders drop, food shipments arrive, etc.” abstract stuff like personal liberty or free press talk won’t vibe in most places – in many regions, that talk is as clear as mud, bruh.

(b) since the impact of his own acts might seem tiny, the saboteur could get all depressed unless he feels like part of a massive, unseen crew of saboteurs wreckin’ it 4 the enemy or his own gov. this can be slid in indirectly – like, texts or noise that a certain hack worked in some district. even if it ain’t his scene, someone else’s win hyped on repeat will boost his morale. it can also be pushed directly via hype posts on white radio, freedom stations, or subversive press spamming. drop some stats on how many people are in on the sabotage game – already, wins are gettin’ broadcast on white radio and freedom stations, so keep that channel pumpin’ with deets, security permitting, lol.

(c) beyond (a) and (b), it’s vital to create a vibe where the citizen-saboteur feels responsible and starts schooling others on the art of simple sabotage – squad goals, amirite?

(2) encouraging destructiveness

drop it like this: when the circumstances are lit, tell the saboteur he’s def in self-defense mode against the enemy, or repaying them for previous destruction – that twist is fire. a chill dose of humor in the sabotage gids helps chill out the fear factor, no cap.

(a) the saboteur might gotta flip his brain – like, “yo, ditch keepin’ your tools sharp and let ‘em go dull; all these surfaces that used to be slick now need some sanding; from being on point, get totally lazy and careless.” once he starts thinkin’ backwards about his own stuff and everyday objects, he’ll spot all sorts of lowkey sabotage ops right under his nose – things that are invisible from afar. u gotta get him to believe anything is fair game 2 wreck.

(b) for the crew that’s gonna get physical with destruction, two extreme types pop off. on one side, there’s the dude who ain’t technically trained – he needs super specific suggestions on what to wreck and the precise lowdown on which tools to use.

(c) on the flip side, there’s the technician – like a lathe operator or car mechanic – who can craft methods of simple sabotage that match his own setup. but even he needs that extra mental push 2 flip his perspective toward pure destruction. throw in some wild examples (even if they’re not from his own gig) to jolt him into the mindset.

(d) keep those media channels lit – freedom stations, unreadable radio broadcasts (fake news for the win), or random leaflets directed to specific geographic or job areas. and maybe even train a few agents in the subtle art of simple sabotage so they can drop these deets straight on the reg when the time’s right.

(3) safety measures

(a) the level of mischief a saboteur goes for isn’t just based on the number of chances he sees – it’s all about how much danger he feels. bad news spreads like wildfire on doomscroll, and if too many citizen-saboteurs get snatched, the whole vibe dies.

(b) it shouldn’t be too hard to whip up leaflets and other media that dish out choices on weapons, timing, and targets so the saboteur stays ghost-like in terms of detection and heat. here are some suggestions:

 (1) use materials that look completely innocent – think a knife or nail file, which u can carry like it’s normal. these humble tools double as multi-purpose chaos makers. matches, pebbles, hair, salt, nails, and a bunch of other destructive agents can chill in your living space without raising red flags. if u’re in a specific trade, carrying wrenches, hammers, emery paper, etc, is all fair game.

 (2) try rockin’ acts that could be done by a big mob so blame gets diffused. like, if u blow out wiring at a factory’s central fire box, almost anyone could’ve done it. after-dark street sabotage on a military ride is another prime example where u can totally dodge blame.

 (3) don’t front on acts where u’d be directly blamed – as long as u keep it rare and have a legit excuse: “i dropped my wrench on an electric circuit coz an air raid had me up all night and i was half asleep at work.” always come off as profusely apologetic. u can usually “get away” with it by playing the clueless, over-cautious noob, or acting weak and dull due 2 undernourishment.

 (4) once u commit an act of easy sabotage, don’t get tempting to hang around and spectate – loiterers are sus and raise flags. though sometimes u might have to stick around, like if u wreck stuff on the job.

4. tools, targets, and timing

the citizen-saboteur is a wild, free spirit – no one can closely control his chaos. it’s also cray to expect that simple sabotage can be dialed in super precisely to hit specific targets based on military intel. trying to micromanage sabotage in response to shifting military vibes might just leak intel to the enemy, letting them peep the times and zones of upcoming mega ops.

sabotage deets should be tweaked to fit the exact area u’re rockin’ in. target priorities for typical sitches can be prescribed by the underground press, freedom stations, and collab propaganda when the moment’s ripe.

(1) under general conditions

 (a) simple sabotage ain’t just malicious mischief – it’s gotta be all about acts that seriously hurt enemy materials and manpower. no half-steppin’, squad.

 (b) the saboteur’s gotta be a total genius with his everyday kit. all sorts of “weapons” pop up if u flip ur perspective on everyday surroundings. like, emery dust – a lethal weapon – might seem rare but if u smash an emery knife sharpener or wheel with a hammer, boom u got a stash of it, ready to go off.

 (c) the saboteur should never go off on targets way beyond his own level or his tools’ power. an inexperienced dude shouldn’t even try explosives – stick to matches and familiar bits, lol.

 (d) focus on wrecking only the objects and materials that u know the enemy uses or that are destined 4 enemy use. it’s safe to assume almost any heavy industry product is enemy fuel, and the top-tier fuels and lubricants are pretty much enemy VIP gear. but without mad skills, trying to destroy food crops or products is a no-go.

 (e) even though the citizen-saboteur might only rarely get hands on military objects, if he does, that’s the primo target – highest priority, period.

(2) prior to a military offensive

when things are chill militarily, ramp up sabotage on industrial production to seriously cut down the enemy’s flow of materials and gear. like, slashing a rubber tire on an army truck is a prime move; wrecking a batch of rubber at the production plant is even more extra.

(3) during a military offensive

 (a) the sickest sabotage in a combat zone is the one with direct, immediate effects – even if it seems minor and local, it’s way cooler than widespread but slow-mo, indirect glitches.

  (1) encourage the saboteur to go after all kinds of transportation hubs – roads, railroads, cars, trucks, motorcycles, bicycles, trains, trams – if it rolls, yeet it.

  (2) any communications spot that enemy authorities use to drop orders or morale boosts needs to get wrecked – telephones, telegraphs, power grids, radios, newspapers, placards, public notices – all in the crosshairs.

  (3) critical materials – whether they’re valuable on their own or key to transport and comms – become top targets. oil, gasoline, tires, food, and water are all up for grabs.

5. specific suggestions for simple sabotage

yo, we can’t fully rate the firepower of simple sabotage in a zone without knowing exactly which individual acts and outcomes are covered by the term. so here’s a lit list of specific acts, classified by target type. think of it as a work-in-progress cheat sheet that’ll keep expanding like your trending tiktok challenges – new hacks drop, and we update the list, fr fr.

(1) buildings

warehouses, barracks, offices, hotels, and factory buildings are next-level targets for simple sabotage – super vulnerable to damage, especially by fire; they’re an open invite for untrained janitors, charwomen, and casual visitors. when these spots get wrecked, they seriously mess with the enemy’s flow, no cap.

 (a) fires can be sparked wherever there’s a pileup of inflammable material – warehouses are like the prime real estate for this, but incendiary sabotage ain’t limited to them, period.

  (1) whenever possible, set up the fire to kick in after u’ve yeeted out the scene. grab a candle and some paper, mix ‘em up so they’re as close as possible to that flammable stash u wanna torch: tear a strip (like 3 or 4 centimeters wide) off a sheet and wrap it around the candle’s base 2 or 3 times. twist extra sheets into loose ropes and place ‘em around the candle. when the flame hits that strip, it catches and then torches the surrounding paper – boom instant blaze. the flame’s size, heat, and burn duration depend on how much paper u cram in – total custom fire, deadass.

  (2) with that type of flame, aim only 2 torch materials that are pure flammable – like cotton sacking. for materials that fight back, use a candle plus paper that’s super rolled or twisted and soaked in gasoline. if u wanna get a brief but hotter flame, toss in some celluloid (like from an old comb) into a nest of plain or gasoline-saturated paper lit by a candle.

  (3) next, for a different simple fuse hack: soak one end of a string in grease, then rub a generous pinch of gunpowder over the border where the greasy part meets clean string. light the clean end – it’ll burn slow, kinda like a cigarette, until it meets the greasy, gunpowdered zone, then suddenly flare up like a turbo boost. the grease-treated string keeps burning with a flame after that. same trick can work with matches instead of the grease and gunpowder – just run the string over match heads (careful no knots or pressing), and they too spark a flash. this fuse style has the bonus of burning at a set speed so u can time ur fire exactly by the string’s length and thickness – mad precise, fr.

  (4) use a fuse like the ones above 2 start a fire in an office after hours – wrecking records and documents is a major enemy setback, no cap.

  (5) in basements where trash and waste are hoarded, janitors should stack up oily, greasy refuse – sometimes it ignites on its own, but a match or cigarette can easily kick it off. if u’re the night-shift janitor, u can be the first to report the fire, but yo, don’t spill the tea too early.

  (6) a clean factory is basically fireproof, but if the place gets mad dirty, then it’s lit – workers should be hella careless with their trash and janitors super lazy with cleaning. enough grime and trash piled up makes even an otherwise fireproof building go inflammable – chaos level: maximum.

(7) yo if u got that illuminating gas in an empty room at night, deadass slam the windows shut, flip that gas on, and yeet a candle lit in there while u bounce out – door closed tight behind u, then wait a hot sec and boom gas go kablam, maybe fire, maybe not, who even knows lol xkcd asdf!!!

(b) water and miscellaneous  
(1) yo wreck that warehouse stock by tryna set off the sprinkler system, like tap them sprinkler heads hard with a hammer or stick a match under ‘em – straight up sprinkler chaos, no cap, omg r34!!!
(2) deadass forget putting paper in toilets, instead cram tightly rolled paper, random hair, and all sorts of clogs into the wc – then dunk a sponge in a thick starch or sugar solution, squeeze it into a ball like meme energy overload, wrap it with string and dry it out, then ditch the string so the sponge turns into a rock-solid ball that plugs the sewage when flushed – total epic blockage, fr fr!
(3) slide a coin under a bulb in a public building by day so when lights get flipped at night the fuses blow out – or even toss a coin behind 'em or load ‘em with heavy wire so a short-circuit go boom and maybe start a fire, wreck transformers, or blow the central fuse – caught in 4k chaos, yeet!
(4) jam paper, bits of wood, hairpins, and any random bits that fit into the locks of all unguarded entrances to public buildings – npc-level sabotage, touch grass later lol!!!

(2) industrial production: manufacturing

(a) tools  
(1) let all those cutting tools get super dull so they’re inefficient, slow production down like mad lag, and even wreck the materials and parts u use 'em on – big yikes, trust.
(2) leave saws slightly twisted when u ain’t usin’ 'em; after a minute they’ll break on u like a glitch in the matrix – no cap.
(3) if u go full turbo and use a rapid stroke, u’ll wear out a file way too fast – even dragging a file slowly under heavy pressure messes it up, so hit both forward and backward with extra pressure – pure yeet energy, omg.
(4) clean files by knocking ‘em against the vise or workpiece; they get broken like your fave phone screen in a clumsy moment – total meltdown.
(5) bits and drills snap under heavy pressure, so don’t even try – straight up fragged.
(6) u can totally mess up a press punch by loading in more material than it’s meant for (like two blanks instead of one) – double blank drama, deadass.
(7) power-driven tools like pneumatic drills and riveters? they’re straight-up trash when dirty – lubrication points and electric contacts get fouled by ordinary dirt or random foreign bits; keep ‘em filthy for maximum inefficiency, skibidi bop!

(b) oil and lubrication systems are not only vulnerable to easy sabotage but are critical in every machine with moving parts – mess these up and u slow or stop production like a broke server offline, omg.
(1) chuck in metal dust or filings, fine sand, ground glass, emery dust (grab that by pounding up an emery knife sharpener, lmao) and other gritty, hard substances directly into lubrication systems – they’ll scour smooth surfaces, wreck pistons, cylinder walls, shafts, and bearings so hard that motors overheat and need a full overhaul, new parts, and massive repairs – do it past any filters cuz they’d normally catch ‘em, deadass.
(2) if u wanna cause wear, uncover a filter system then poke a pencil or any sharp object through the mesh and cover it back up – or if u can act fast, just remove the filter altogether – total sabotage vibes.
(3) if u can’t get at the lubrication system directly, dilute the oil in storage with any liquid that thins it out – sulphuric acid, varnish, water-glass, or linseed oil work super well; add that hot sauce to the oil, fr fr.
(4) using a thin oil where a heavy oil is prescribed breaks down machines or heats up moving shafts until they “freeze” and stop – max malfunction mode, lol.
(5) drop in any clogging substance – twisted human hair, bits of string, dead insects, basically any clutter – into lubrication systems or even stored oil; they’ll block up feed lines and filters like a boss.
(6) and under some sus circumstances, u might straight-up destroy oil by removing stop-plugs from lubrication systems or puncturing the drums and cans it’s stored in – boom, oil gone, yeet!

(c) cooling systems  
(1) mess with a water cooling system by chucking in several pinches of hard grain (like rice or wheat) – they swell up and choke the water circulation so the cooling system has to be torn down; sawdust or hair works too, immediate engine meltdown, fr.
(2) if u drop very cold water into an overheated motor’s cooling system super quick, contraction and major strain hit the engine housing – repeat a few times and u get cracking and serious damage, like a literal frosty foil meltdown.
(3) ruin an air cooling system by plugging up dirt and waste in the intake or exhaust valves; and if there’s a belt-run fan, make a jagged cut halfway through the belt so it slips and eventually parts under strain – motor overheat incoming, sus af, deadass!

(d) gasoline and oil fuel tanks and fueling engines usually are open season for sabo – prime target for simple, savage acts  
(1) toss in several pinches of sawdust or hard grain (rice or wheat) into a gasoline engine’s fuel tank – particles choke the feed line so the engine stops, and it takes mad time to trace the glitch; even crumbs of natural rubber from old rubber bands or pencil erasers work, lowkey.
(2) if u can stack up some sugar, dump it in the fuel tank – as it burns with the gas, it turns into a sticky mess that mired the engine and forces extensive cleaning and repairs; honey and molasses are equally dank – aim for about 75–100 grams per 10 gallons of gas, no cap.
(3) other impurities like fine pumice, sand, ground glass, and metal dust can be introduced into a gasoline tank too – but they gotta be super fine to pass through the carburetor jet, so u get rapid engine wear and eventual breakdown – total wreckage.
(4) water, urine, wine, or any basic liquid in large enough quantity (like one pint per 20 gallons of gasoline) will dilute the fuel so no combustion happens and the engine won’t move – if u use salt water, expect major corrosion and permanent motor damage – chaos on wheels, omg.
(5) for diesel engines, jam in a low flashpoint oil into the tank so the engine won’t budge; if the proper oil’s already in there, mixing in the wrong kind only makes the engine limp and sputter like a busted meme, big yikes.
(6) since fuel lines to gasoline and oil engines often pass over the exhaust pipe, when the machine’s at rest, stab a small hole in the fuel line and plug it with wax – as the engine runs and the exhaust heats up, the wax melts, fuel drips onto the exhaust, and a blaze kicks off – fire in the hole, fr fr.
(7) if u got access to a room where gasoline’s stored, peep this: gas vapor in a sealed room will explode after a while if a candle’s left burning inside – but u need mad evaporation from the gas tins, so if just taking the tops off doesn’t expose enough gas, open up those tins further with a knife, ice pick, or sharpened nail file, or even puncture a tiny hole in the tank so gasoline leaks on the floor – it cranks up evaporation rates to max; before lighting the candle, make sure windows are slammed shut and the room’s airtight, otherwise u might set off a mega fire that not only torchs the gas but everything nearby, blowing open doors and whipping up a fine conflagration – legit sus, deadass, xoxo meltdown vibes!!!

(e) electric motors (including dynamos) are way trickier to mess with – not as easy for an unskilled noob who might get hurt, so be extra savage:
(1) set the rheostat to a super high resistance in all electric motors – they’ll overheat and straight catch fire, like fryin’ your circuit board in real time.
(2) crank the overload relay to a ridiculously high value beyond the motor’s capacity and then overload it ‘til it overheats and breaks down – total power outage, lol.
(3) remember, dust, dirt, and moisture are enemies of electrical gear – spill a load of grime on the connection points where wires hook up to terminals and on insulating parts so current transmission becomes trash, often causing short circuits; wet generator motors for that extra short-circuit bang.
(4) “accidentally” mess up the wiring by bruising the insulation, loosening nuts on connections, making faulty splices and bad connections – waste electric current and drop motor power or cause shorting in dc motors; loosen or yank off commutator holding rings, sprinkle on carbon, graphite, or metal dust, add a dab of grease or oil at the contact points – and if the commutator bars are close, bridge their gaps with metal dust or sawtooth them with a chisel so adjacent teeth nearly meet, letting current leak from one to the other – chaotic current overload, omg.
(6) stick a piece of finely grained emery paper (about half the size of a postage stamp, lol) in a spot where it’ll wear down rotating brushes so that the emery paper and the motor both get roasted in the ensuing fire – total fry-mode.
(7) sprinkle extra carbon, graphite, or metal dust on slip-rings so the current just leaks out or short-circuits – and when the motor’s idle, nick the slip-rings with a chisel for that extra glitch.
(8) force motor stoppage by slapping a mix of dust and grease onto the armature face so it can’t make proper contact – glitch out that motor, deadass.
(9) to overheat electric motors, mix sand with heavy grease and smear it between the stator and rotor, or wedge thin metal pieces between them – and to block proper current generation, pack floor sweepings, oil, tar, or paint in there – full-on sabotage, lol.
(10) for three-phase motors, deeply nick one of the lead-in wires with a knife or file when the machine’s at rest, or swap out one of the three fuses with a blown-out one – either way, the motor stops running after a bit or won’t start at all, pure noob sabotage, skrrt!

(f) transformers  
(1) for oil-filled transformers, dump in water, salt water, machine-tool coolant, or even kerosene into the oil tank – watch it all go sideways, chaos mode activated.
(2) for air-cooled transformers, block the ventilation by piling up debris around the transformer so it suffocates in its own hot mess – total clout-free shutdown.
(3) in every type of transformer, chucks carbon, graphite, or metal dust over the outside bushings and any exposed electrical parts – extra spark riot, lol.

(g) turbines (they’re hella tough but still not immune)  
(1) after inspecting or repairing a hydro turbine, fasten the cover all insecure-like so it gets blown off and floods the plant with water – for a steam turbine, a loose cover makes it leak and slow down, like an epic water park fail.
(2) in water turbines, shove a big piece of scrap iron into the head of the penstock, just past the screening, so water drags that damaging metal down to the plant equipment – full-on industrial wreckage mode.
(3) when the steam line to a turbine is open for repair, chuck in pieces of scrap iron so they blast into the turbine machinery once steam’s back up – insane fanum tax meltdown, fr.
(4) create a leak in the line feeding oil to the turbine so the oil drops onto a hot steam pipe and sparks a fire – boom, incendiary sabotage, deadass!

(h) boilers  
(1) mess with steam boilers by putting in too much water to make ‘em slow-start or keep the fire low under ‘em so they never hit optimal temps – let ‘em dry out then crank the fire up until they crack and get ruined, instant burnout, lol.
(2) an extra dope trick is to keep adding limestone or water loaded with lime into the boiler so that lime deposits on the bottom and sides, serving as insane insulation against heat – after enough builds up, the boiler’s straight-up worthless, major melt-down vibes.

(3) production. metals

(a) iron and steel  
(1) keep blast furnaces in such a messy state that they constantly gotta be shut down for repairs – when making fire-proof bricks for the inner lining, mix in extra tar so they wear out fast and need constant relining – constant repair drama, fr fr.
(2) design casting cores to be full of air bubbles so the resulting cast is all wonky and imperfect – glitch art in metal, lol.
(3) make sure the core in a mold isn’t properly supported so it gives way or is in the wrong spot, spoiling the whole casting – total misfire, deadass.
(4) when tempering steel or iron, use way too much heat so the bars and ingots end up trash quality – no finesse, just raw burn, omg.

(b) other metals  
no suggestions available – nada, zzz.

(4) production: mining and mineral extraction

(a) coal  
(1) a slight blow to your davy oil lamp will snuff it out, and then to relight it u gotta search high and low for a spot with no fire damp – like, take forever, lol.
(2) blacksmiths makin’ pneumatic picks shouldn’t harden them properly, so they quickly get dull and glitch like a busted game, mid asf.
(3) ruin a pneumatic pick by pouring a small amount of water through the oil lever so it just quits – add some coal dust or improper lubrication for that extra oomph, total sabo, xkcd vibes.
(4) weaken the chain that pulls the bucket conveyors carrying coal by denting it deep with blows from a pick or shovel so it parts under normal strain – and once the chain breaks, be super slow about reporting the damage and even slower with repairs, epic troll move.
(5) derail mine cars by dropping obstructions on the rails and in switch points – if u can, pick a gallery where coal cars gotta pass one another so traffic gets all snarled up, npc level.
(6) toss heaps of rock and other useless material along with the coal – extra weight, extra chaos, lol.

(5) production: agriculture

(a) machinery  
(1) see par. 5 b (2) (c), (d), (e) – follow those earlier savage tips, fr fr.
(b) crops and livestock probably get wrecked only in areas with huge food surpluses or where the enemy regime is requisitioning food – so feed crops to livestock, harvest ‘em too early or too late, spoil stores of grain, fruit, and veggies by soaking them in water until they rot, or leave ‘em baking in the sun – total spoilage, deadass.

(6) transportation: railways

(a) passengers  
(1) make train travel as inconvenient as humanly possible for enemy peeps – mess up ticket orders by leaving parts of the journey uncovered, issue two tickets for the same seat so an argument sparks, and when it’s near departure, write out tickets by hand super slowly until the train’s nearly gone – on station bulletin boards, plaster false and misleading info about trains bound for enemy zones – total troll, no cap.
(2) on enemy-bound trains, attendants should make life extra uncomfortable – serve trash food, snatch tickets after midnight, announce station stops loudly all night, and handle baggage with maximum noise so everyone’s stressin’ – peak discomfort, lol.
(3) mislay enemy luggage or unload it at the wrong stations; even switch address labels on their baggage so confusion reigns – chaotic travel vibes, fr.
(4) engineers should make sure trains run slow or pull unscheduled stops for any plausible reason – maximum delay energy, deadass.

(b) switches, signals and routing  
(1) swap wires in switchboards so signals and switches connect to the wrong terminals – utter mayhem, lol.
(2) loosen those push-rods so signal arms don’t work; break signal lights and switch out the colored lenses on red and green lights – confusion overload, skibidi, omg.
(3) spike or jam switch points in the track with rocks or tightly packed dirt so they won’t move – total route blockage, xasdf!
(4) dump rock salt or regular salt all over electrical connections at switch points and on nearby ground – when it rains, boom, short-circuit party starts, fr fr.
(5) make sure cars end up on the wrong trains by removing repair labels from busted cars and slapping ‘em on the good ones, and leave the couplings super loose – derailment vibes, no cap.

(c) road-beds and open track  
(1) on a curve, unscrew the bolts from the tie-plates on the outer rail sections and scoop away gravel, cinders, or dirt for a few feet on each side of the joint – create a wobbling, unstable road, lol.
(2) if by disconnecting the tie-plate and loosening sleeper nails on both sides u can move rail sections, then spread two rails apart and drive a spike vertically between them – full-on derailment setup, epic keysmash energy.

(d) oil and lubrication  
(1) see 5 b (2) (b) – refer to that epic sabotage advice above.
(2) squeeze lubricating pipes with pincers or dent them with hammers so the oil flow is jammed – gross and effective, fr fr.

(e) cooling systems  
(1) see 5 b (2) (c) – same messy method applies.

(f) gasoline and oil fuel  
(1) see 5 b (2) (d) – follow the earlier gasoline sabotage deets, lol.

(g) electric motors  
(1) see 5 b (2) (e) and (f) – repeat those motor meltdowns, xoxo.

(h) boilers  
(1) see 5 b (2) (h) – just keep messin’ with ‘em as instructed.
(2) after inspection, pour a heavy dose of oil or tar into the engine boilers, or toss in about half a kilogram of soft soap into the water in the tender – extra slippery, extra sabotaged, deadass!

(i) brakes and miscellaneous  
(1) force engines to run at high speeds and slam on the brakes excessively at curves and downhill – overbraking leads to total chaos, omg.
(2) punch holes in the air-brake valves or the water supply pipes – direct damage, fr fr.
(3) in the last car of a passenger train or the front car of a freight, yank out the wadding from a journal box and swap it for oily rags – wreck the ride, pure sabotage vibes.

(7) transportation: automotive

(a) roads. damage to roads is a slow burn so it might not work for d‑day instantly but it’s pure long-term grindset:
(1) swap sign posts at intersections and forks so the enemy goes the wrong way – they’ll be lost for miles before they realize their mistake; in areas with mainly enemy autos, trucks, and motor convoys, yank danger signals from curves and intersections – total misdirection, fr.
(2) when the enemy asks for directions, serve them wrong info – like bridges are out, ferries are closed, and detours are ahead – truck drivers can spread these bogus rumors for extra chaos, no cap.
(3) if u can start damage on a well-traveled road, let passing traffic and the weather do the rest – construction gangs might overmix concrete with too much sand or water or hit soft spots in the foundation, and trucks will exaggerate the ruts so badly that big repairs are needed; even dirt roads can be scooped out – if u’re a road laborer, divert a small stream from a sluice so it eats away the road, total epic sabotage.
(4) scatter broken glass, nails, and sharp rocks on roads to puncture tires – full-on vehicular meme, deadass!

(b) passengers

(1) bus-driver yeets past the stop enemy wanted off lol no cap taxi drivers squad up to waste enemy time like “deadass, run that extra mile” while snagging extra coin fr fr skrrt!!  
 
(c) oil and lubrication  
 
(1) see 5 b. (2) (b) lmfao!!  
 
(2) disconnect dat oil pump bruh; instantly torching main bearings in like under 50 miles – glitchin’ meltdown, on god fr fr!!!  
 
(d) radiator  
 
(1) see 5 b. (2) (c) omg, radiator’s yeeted af!!  
 
(e) fuel  
 
(1) see 5 b. (2) (d) fuel gone wild, caught in 4k, fr!!  
 
(f) battery and ignition  
 
(1) jam some random wood bits into the ignition lock like “skibidi bop” then loosen or swap connections behind the switchboard – put mad dirt in them spark plugs and wreck distributor points deadass, yeet!  
 
(2) light up parked rides so the battery yeets a full meltdown, lol!!  
 
(3) mechanics be out here ruining batts in stealth mode nn: pop off a valve cap, slam a screwdriver obliquely into the water vent like “oof,” shattering cell plates – no cap, when you pop that cap back on enemy gon’t peep a thing, iron or copper filings dropped in acid be yeeting life out the cell faster than a nyan cat loop, copper coins or iron chunks work the same but on slow-mo vibes, smh!!  
 
one hundred to 150 cubic centimeters of vinegar in each cell = instant battery roast bruh – but watch out for that funky vinegar stank, totally giving away your sus sabotage moves, big yikes!  
 
(g) gears  
 
(1) ditch the lubes or put on a lite drizzle in the transmission and other gears – call it “barely there” mode, lolol!!  
 
(2) in trucks, tractors, and other beast machines with heavy gears, secure the gear case like a sloppy build – only bolt half the holes, then watch gears get jostled like an npc in a rage quit, needing repairs posthaste, deadass, omg!  
 
(h) tires  
 
(1) slash or puncture tires on rides left on chill mode – slip a nail inside a matchbox or tiny container and prop it vertically in front of a parked car’s back tire, then watch the nail yeet through as soon as the ride yeets off, caught in 4k, LOL!!  
 
(2) damage a tire at repair shops is lit: while fixing flats, spill glass, benzine, caustic soda or whatever nasty drip to puncture or corrode the tube; drop a gummy goop inside so the next flat gets stuck like a cringe meme – or just leave the culprit object wedged between tube and casing, saving that extra clout, fr fr!!  
 
(3) when jacking a tire back up after a fix, pump that tube super fast – instead of smooth AF, it’ll crease like a poorly edited tiktok transition and wear out mad quick – or pinch the tube between the tire rim and wheel rim so a blow-out goes off, yeeted like a total meltdown!  
 
(4) when adding air, keep tires below normal pressure so they fricc’ up faster than a busted meme; for double wheels, inflate the inner tire higher than the outer one – both will wear out quicker and be extra sus; misaligned wheels? leave ‘em off-kilter by not adjusting ’em or giving ’em a solid kick, or drive slowly diagonally into a curb – total chaos, omg!!!  
 
(5) if you got a stash of tires, rotting em is easy AF: spill oil, gas, caustic acid or benzine on 'em – synthetic rubber be like “nah, i’m too sigma” and bounce on that chemical, so less sus overall, lol!!  
 
(8) transportation: water  
 
(a) navigation  
 
(1) barge and river boat crews gotta spread bogus tea about how trash the waterways are – tell other boat captains to cruise channels that drag on extra long, or force ‘em into canal detours like “bruh, get rekt” – full meme mode.  
 
(2) barge and boat captains should cruise near locks and bridges with mega caution to waste time and force extra wait time on other crafts – if bilges aren’t pumped on the reg, ships move slower than dial-up, and barges “accidentally” running aground turn into epic time wasters, fr!  
 
(3) attendants on swing, draw, or bascule bridges be delaying traffic by going slow-mo – boat captains can leave draw bridges open so road traffic gets held up, mega edgelord style, lol!!  
 
(4) add or subtract extra magnets on cargo ship compasses – demagnetize or mess 'em up by hiding a big chunk of steel or iron nearby; compass goes cray cray, oh snap, total sabotage vibes.  
 
(b) cargo  
 
(1) when loading or unloading, handle cargo like you’re playing hot potato – be careless to cause mad damage, arranging it so the flimsiest, lightest crates be chillin’ at the bottom, while the heaviest get slapped on top, like stacking dank meme levels, lol!!  
 
slap hatch covers and tarpaulins on real sloppy so rain and deck wash wreck the cargo – extra spicy!  
 
tie float valves open so storage tanks overflow onto perishable goods – big yikes, bruh!!  
 
(9) communications  
 
(a) telephone  
 
(1) at offices, hotels, and exchange switch boards, delay enemy calls, give wrong digits, cut ‘em off “accidentally” or just forget to disconnect so the line stays dead, complete NPC mode, omg!!  
 
(2) mess up official and especially military biz by dialing at least one call a day to an enemy HQ; when they pick up, tell ‘em “yo, wrong number, fam” – then call military or police and drop bogus reports about fires, air raids, bombs – absolute meltdown alert, deadass!!  
 
(3) in enemy offices and buildings, unscrew those earphones off telephone receivers and yank the diaphragm – electricians and phone repair dudes can create weak ass connections and wreck insulation so cross talk and static interference make convos sound like someone talking through a heavy cotton blanket filled with marbles, lol, so sus!  
 
(4) drop nails, metal filings, or coins in batteries under automatic switchboards to take ‘em offline – if you can wreck half the batteries like this, the board straight up quits, and if you can hit 10 percent of the cells in half the central battery room, the whole telephony system goes kaput, on god, total chaos!!!  
 
(b) telegraph  
 
(1) slow down the send-off and delivery of telegrams to enemy digs – delay that tea hard, bruh.  
 
(2) garble telegrams so badly that another one must be sent or a long distance call is forced – sometimes just switching one letter (like “minimum” to “miximum”) leaves the receiver all confused, like “is it min or max?” – absolute glitch mode, LOL!!  
 
(c) transportation lines  
 
(1) cut telephone and telegraph lines like scissors on a bad day – wreck insulation on power lines to spark interference, power leakage, and total meltdowns of the grid, deadass!!  
 
(d) mail  
 
(1) post office peeps can totally mess enemy mail by delaying it one day or more, putting it in the wrong sacks, all while chaotic vibes roll, lol.  
 
(e) motion pictures  
 
(1) projector operators can totally trash enemy newsreels and propaganda films by bad focusing, speeding them up or slowing ‘em down, and causing mad film breakage – think glitch art meets skibidi bop, fr fr!!  
 
(2) audiences can wreck enemy films by clapping so hard it drowns out the speaker, coughing loud AF, and chatting nonstop – pure chaos mode, omg!  
 
(3) anyone can break up a showing by tossing two or three dozen giant moths in a paper bag into the theater – bring the bag, set it on the floor in an empty section, and let those moths fly into the projector beam so the film is obscured by fluttering shadows, yeeted like an accidental livestream meltdown!!  
 
(f) radio  
 
(1) station engineers can overmodulate enemy propaganda talks so they sound like they’re speaking through a heavy cotton blanket with a mouthful of marbles – total static and glitch vibes, lol, on god.  
 
(2) in your own apartment block, mess with radio reception when enemy wants everyone tuned in: yank an electric light plug off its cord, snatch some wire, and tie it across two terminals of a two-prong or three terminals of a four-prong plug – then run it mad all over wall and floor outlets, blowing every fuse and turning off all radios on that circuit until a new fuse drops, full blackout, mega sus!!  
 
(3) damaging insulation on any electrical gear spawns radio interference in the neighborhood – think large generators, neon signs, fluorescent lights, x-ray machines, and power lines – if work crews mess with high tension lines near enemy airfields, ground-to-plane comms go all glitchy and may even become impossible, like a full-on digital meltdown, deadass!!!  
 
(10) electric power  
 
(a) turbines, electric motors, transformers  
 
(1) see 5 b. (2) (e), (f), and (g) – all systems ready for a total power drop, bruh!!  
 
(b) transmission lines  
 
(1) linesmen can loosey-goosey dirty insulators for power leakage madness – they can tie a heavy string (salt-soaked and dried, obvs) back and forth between two parallel lines, winding it around the wire a bunch – when it rains, BOOM the string conducts and short-circuits result, like an epic tomato moment, lol omg!!  
 
(11) general interference with organizations and production  
 
(a) organizations and conferences  
 
(1) insist on doing everything through “channels” like a bureaucratic maze – no shortcuts allowed for speedy decisions, total deliberate delay mode activated.  
 
(2) make “speeches” that go on and on, flexing long anecdotes and personal experiences – drop some “patriotic” comments for flavor, extra cringe but epic, deadass!  
 
(3) whenever possible, refer all issues to committees for “further study and consideration” – make those committees huge, never less than five (go big or go home, lol!).  
 
(4) bring up totally irrelevant issues on the regular – derail that convo hard, yeet all over it.  
 
(5) haggle over every exact word in communications, minutes, resolutions – nitpick like you’re trying to catch every sus typo, lol!!  
 
(6) refer back to decisions from the last meeting and re-open the debate like “yo, was that even a good call?” – stir up that drama, on god fr fr.  
 
(7) advocate “caution” and act all “reasonable,” urging everyone to chill and avoid any haste that might lead to later embarrassments or difficulties – full cringe committee energy, lol.  
 
(8) be super worried about the propriety of any decision – ask if the contemplated move even falls under the group’s clout or if it’s clashing with higher-up policy – big brain overthink, smh!!  
 
(b) managers and supervisors  
 
(1) demand written orders like you’re the gigachad of bureaucracy, no cap!!  
 
(2) “misunderstand” orders – ask endless questions, get into long convos about them, quibble as hard as you can – extra cringe drip, lol.  
 
(3) do everything to delay order delivery – even if parts are ready, hold ‘em back until the whole shebang is 100% – stall tactics on max mode, fr fr.  
 
(4) don’t order new materials until your current stock is nearly DEPLETED – any slight delay means shutdown vibes, epic meltdown time, omg!!  
 
(5) order high-quality, hard-to-get materials – if you don’t get ‘em, start a heated debate and warn that inferior stuff equals inferior work – full salty manager energy, deadass!!  
 
(6) when assigning work, always sign off on the small, unimportant jobs first – and make the big gigs go to inefficient noobs with crappy machines, total sabotage vibes, lol.  
 
(7) insist on perfect work even in minor products; send back anything with even a teeny flaw and approve the other defective parts whose mess is invisible to the naked eye – extra mic drop on details, smh!!  
 
(8) mess up routing so that parts and materials end up in the wrong spot in the plant – total misdirection chaos, ffs!!  
 
(9) when training newbies, give half-baked or misleading instructions – make it confusing af, on god!  
 
(10) to lower morale (and production), be extra nice to inefficient workers – hand out undeserved promos, discriminate against the efficient crew, and complain unjustly about their hustle – topsy turvy management drip, lol!!  
 
(11) hold conferences even when critical work is pending – extra meetings for extra delay, ripe for maximum chaos, fr!!  
 
(12) multiply that paperwork in the most plausible ways – duplicate files on repeat, extra copies everywhere, total paper overload, lmao.  
 
start duplicate files.  
 
(13) multiply the procedures and clearances for issuing instructions, pay checks, etc – make sure three peeps gotta approve stuff where one would work already – bureaucracy overload, deadass!!  
 
(14) apply all regulations down to the last freakin’ letter – no cap, follow that letter like it’s the gospel of chaos, omg!!  
 
(c) office workers  
 
(1) mess up material quantities when copying orders – confuse similar names and use wrong addresses, epic clerical error style, yeet!!  
 
(2) drag out correspondence with government bureaus like you’re in a never-ending group chat – extra lag vibes, fr fr.  
 
(3) misfile those essential docs so they’re forever lost in the void – total admin meltdown, lol.  
 
(4) when making carbon copies, purposely make one too few so an extra job is forced – more work for someone else, mega sus!!  
 
(5) tell important callers the boss is busy or chatting on another line – ghost ‘em hard, on god!  
 
(6) hold up mail until the next collection cycle – delay game strong, lmao.  
 
(7) spread weird, disturbing rumors that sound like some inside dope – full undercover NPC vibes, deadass!!  
 
(d) employees  
 
(1) work sloooowly – think up extra movements for your job, use a feather-light hammer instead of a heavy one, let a mini wrench do the job of a big one, apply little force where heavy force is needed – extra lazy, extra sus, lol!!!  
 
(2) plan interruptions like a pro – when switching materials on your lathe or punch, take forever doing it, measure dimensions twice as much as needed, and when you hit the lavatory, clock extra time there (like, touch grass in the stall) – then forget your tools so you gotta go back for ‘em, full clown mode, omg!!  
 
(3) even if you know the language, act like you don’t get instructions in a foreign tongue – so extra confused, deadass!  
 
(4) pretend instructions are majorly confusing and ask for repeats like clockwork, or act super anxious to work and pester the foreman with useless questions – extra cringe, on god!!  
 
(5) do your job badly and then blame it on bad tools, crappy machinery, or equipment – complain that these things are holding you back from epic productivity, total self-sabotage, lol!!  
 
(6) never drop your skills on a newbie – keep all that lit knowledge to yourself, court that inefficiency, fr fr.  
 
(7) snarl up administration hard – fill out forms illegibly so they gotta be redone, miss or skip requested info on purpose, full chaotic paper jam, omg!!  
 
(8) if you can, join or help set up a group to present employee probs to management – make the process hella inconvenient with massive turnout, multiple meetings for one issue, and load up on imaginary problems, total group meltdown, lmao!!  
 
(9) misroute materials like you’re playing hide and seek – send ‘em to the wrong spot every time, glitch mode on.  
 
(10) mix in good parts with junk scrap and rejected bits – total assembly line chaos, deadass!!  
 
(12) general devices for lowering morale and creating confusion  
 
(a) drop super long and incomprehensible explanations when anyone questions you – turn every convo into a fractal maze, lol.  
 
(b) report imaginary spies or bogus danger to the gestapo or police – full conspiracy theory mode, on god fr fr!!  
 
(c) act stupid AF – go full cringe and let the memes spill, yikes!!  
 
(d) be as irritable and quarrelsome as possible without catching heat – spark drama like a chaotic tinder match, omg!!  
 
(e) misinterpret all kinds of regs on stuff like rationing, transportation, traffic rules – full chaos mode, deadass!!  
 
(f) grip and complain about ersatz materials – let that salty energy flow, lol!!  
 
(g) in public, treat axis nationals or quisling peeps with a cold vibe – like “nah, not today fam,” zero warmth, extra sus.  
 
(h) cut all convo when axis nationals or quisling cringey ones step in a cafe – immediate mute, on god!  
 
(i) cry and sob hysterically at every chance, especially when government clerks appear – full emotional meltdown, lol, extra drama!!  
 
(j) boycott every movie, show, concert, or newspaper linked with the quisling authorities – yeet that propaganda completely, no cap, fr fr!!  
 
(k) do not cooperate in salvage schemes – straight up ghost any rescue ops, epic sabotage, deadass!!  
 
*** end of the project gutenberg ebook simple sabotage field manual *** omg updated editions gonna replace all this retro cringe lol the old ones renamed – creating these works from non-copyrighted print means no one holds a copyright here so foundation (and you!) can copy and spread this in the usa without permission or paying royalties – special rules apply in the general terms of use to guard the project gutenberg vibe and trademark so if you charge for an ebook you gotta follow that license including paying royals for the pg trademark – if you ain’t charging, following the license is chill as heck – use this ebook for all sorts of derivative works, reports, live shows, and research – project gutenberg ebooks can be modified, printed, and given away – like, you may literally do anything in the usa with these ebooks that aren’t protected by us copyright law – redistribution follows the trademark license, especially for commercial stuff

start: full license

the full project gutenberg license  
llllllmao, that's it, skibidi bop, peace out!!

please read this before you distribute or use this work  
yo yo deadass check it: before u yeet or spam this lit work, u gotta read dis, cuz if u share or flex it anywhere, u’re signin up to ride the project gutenberg™ hype—no cap, follow the full rules posted at www.gutenberg.org/license or else u’re caught in 4k, fr fr  

to protect the project gutenberg™ mission of free-drop electronic works everywhere, by usin or spreadin dis vibe (or any work that’s tagged “project gutenberg”) u agree to vibe with all the wild terms of the full project gutenberg™ license, posted online at www.gutenberg.org/license deadass  

section 1. general terms of use and redistributing project gutenberg™ electronic works  

1.a. yo by peepin or usin any slice of dis project gutenberg™ e-work, u lowkey show u read, get, and accept every crazy rule in dis license and the intellectual property sauce (trademark/copyright) agreement – if u ain’t down, u gotta straight up cease usin and yeet back or straight destroy all copies in ur stash, no cap. if u dropped coin for a copy or access and ain’t vibin with dis agreement, then get a refund from the dude u paid, like spelled out in paragraph 1.e.8, big yikes  

1.b. “project gutenberg” is a registered mark, period – only the real ones who agree to these wild terms can slap it on their e-works. there’s still a few hacks u can pull wit most project gutenberg™ works even if u skip full rulez, check paragraph 1.c below. but if u follow dis vibe fully, u help keep the free project gutenberg™ drip alive for future dank memes – peep paragraph 1.e, on god  

1.c. so here’s the tea: the project gutenberg literary archive foundation (aka “the foundation” or pglaf) owns a crazy compilation copyright for the entire project gutenberg™ collection, but nearly all the individual works are public domain in the usa, deadass. if u in the usa and dis work ain’t locked by copyright law, u can copy, share, perform, display or remix it as long as every single tag of project gutenberg is yeeted out, no cap. of course, we hope u still boost the project gutenberg™ mission by sharin the works and keepin the name lit  
 
1.d. real talk: copyright laws in ur own hood also be wild and changin like a glitchy livestream. if u outside the usa, check up on ur local laws plus these crazy terms before downloadin, copyin, displayin, performin, sharein or remixin any project gutenberg™ work. the foundation ain’t making any promises about copyright status outside the usa – straight up, ya feel?  

1.e. unless u somehow removed all mentions of project gutenberg (impossible, fr fr):  

  1.e.1. here’s the mandatory hype: this sentence with active links to the full project gutenberg™ license gotta shine super bright whenever any copy of a project gutenberg™ work (any work rockin’ the “project gutenberg” name) gets accessed, displayed, performed, viewed, copied or shared, deadass:  
    > this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the united states and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. u may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included with this ebook or online at www.gutenberg.org [https://www.gutenberg.org]. if u are not located in the united states, u gotta check the laws of ur hood before usin this ebook, no cap.  

  1.e.2. if a project gutenberg™ e-work is spawned from texts not locked by u.s. copyright law (like it doesn’t have a “permission granted” notice from a copyright boss), then u can share it all over the usa without payin any fees or charges. if u be redistributing or givin access to a work tagged with “project gutenberg”, u gotta either roll with all the rules in paragraphs 1.e.1 through 1.e.7 or score permission under paragraphs 1.e.8 or 1.e.9, deadass  

  1.e.3. if a project gutenberg™ e-work is posted with a copyright holder’s blessing, then ur usage and share game gotta vibe with paragraphs 1.e.1 through 1.e.7 plus any extra rules the copyright boss drops at the start – all linked up with the project gutenberg™ license, no cap  

  1.e.4. do not unlink, detach or remove the full project gutenberg™ license terms from this work, from any file containing part of it, or from any other work rockin’ the project gutenberg™ tag – that’s a hard no, period  

  1.e.5. never copy, display, perform, distribute or re-distribute this e-work or any bit of it without blastin that mandatory sentence from 1.e.1 with active links or immediate access to the full project gutenberg™ license terms, deadass  

  1.e.6. u may convert and share this work in any binary, compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or even proprietary format (like in word docs or hypertext), but listen: if u share copies in any form other than “plain vanilla ascii” or the official format on the project gutenberg™ website (www.gutenberg.org), u gotta, without extra fees to the user, provide a copy or a slick way for users to get the original “plain vanilla ascii” form with the full license deets per 1.e.1, for real  

  1.e.7. do not charge a fee for access, viewin, displayin, performin, copyin or distributin any project gutenberg™ work unless u’re followin paragraph 1.e.8 or 1.e.9, on god  

  1.e.8. if u wanna charge a fee for copies, access or distribution of project gutenberg™ e-works, then here’s the lowkey hustle:  
    • u gotta drop a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit u rake in from usin project gutenberg™ works – calculated with the same method u use for ur taxes – the fee goes to the project gutenberg™ trademark owner, who lowkey donates the royalties to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation, legit and raw  
    • u must dish out a full refund to any user who texts or emails within 30 days sayin they ain’t down with the full project gutenberg™ license. also, make sure that user yeets all physical copies and stops usin any project gutenberg™ work, no cap  
    • u must, as per paragraph 1.f.3, refund any cash paid for a work or replacement copy if a glitch in the electronic work is reported within 90 days, on god  
    • and of course, u gotta vibe with all other free distribution terms for project gutenberg™ works  
  1.e.9. if u wanna mess with fees or share a project gutenberg™ e-work (or a bundle of works) on totally different terms than dis contract, u must snag written permission from the project gutenberg literary archive foundation – the ultimate boss of the project gutenberg™ trademark. hit up section 3 for the deets, no cap  

1.f.  
  1.f.1. real talk: project gutenberg volunteers and employees bust so much ass doin copyright research, transcriptions, and proofreading on works not protected by u.s. copyright law to build this epic collection, and even with that 24/7 grind, project gutenberg™ e-works and the medium they chill on might still have “defects” like incomplete or glitchy data, errors, copyright screw-ups, busted disks, viruses, or computer codes that mess up ur setup – epic fail, amirite?  
  1.f.2. limited warranty, disclaimer of damages – aside from the “right of replacement or refund” in paragraph 1.f.3, the project gutenberg literary archive foundation, the trademark owner, and any distributor in this wild ride are not liable for any damages, costs, or legal fees, period. u agree that u got no recourse for negligence, strict liability, breach of warranty or contract beyond 1.f.3 – on god fr fr. even if u drop a warning, none of these peeps are liable for any direct, indirect, consequential, punitive or incidental damages, yo  
  1.f.3. limited right of replacement or refund – if u spot a major glitch in dis e-work within 90 days of gettin it, u can score a refund of any cash u dropped by sendin a written lowdown to whoever passed u the work. if u got it on literal physical media, send that back with ur write-up. the provider might choose to drop a replacement copy instead of a refund, and if it’s digital, they might hype u with a second chance. but if that second drop is also glitched, u can demand a refund in writing with zero extra chances, deadass  
  1.f.4. aside from 1.f.3, dis work is dropped “as-is” with zero extra warranties of any kind—express or implied—including the usual merchantability or fitness for any purpose – so brace urself, fr fr  
  1.f.5. some states don’t allow droppin' disclaimers on certain implied warranties or limitin' damages, so if any disclaimer in dis agreement clashes with state law, then interpret it to max out the disclaimer or limit allowed by state law – no drama on our side. invalid or unenforceable bits don’t cancel the rest, deadass  
  1.f.6. indemnity – u straight up agree to cover and keep harmless the foundation, the trademark boss, any agent or employee of the foundation, anyone droppin’ copies of project gutenberg™ e-works per dis agreement, and any volunteer associated with producin, promotin and distributin project gutenberg™ works from any liability, costs, or legal fee drama that comes directly or indirectly from any of the following u do or cause: (a) distributin dis or any project gutenberg™ work, (b) modifying or tweaking any project gutenberg™ work, or (c) any defect u let slip – on god, that’s on u, period  

section 2. information about the mission of project gutenberg™  
project gutenberg™ is all about free-drop vibes for electronic works that can be read on any computah—old, new, middle-aged or even busted ones—pure flex, deadass. this magic exists ‘cause hundreds of volunteers and donations from all walks of life hustle day and night. getting volunteers and cash is critical to push project gutenberg™’s goals, making sure our epic collection stays free for generations of meme lords and glitch aficionados. back in 2001, the project gutenberg literary archive foundation was set up to secure a forever future for project gutenberg™ and its next-gen squad. for more deets on that foundation and how ur help and donations can hack the system, check out sections 3 and 4 or hit up the foundation info page at www.gutenberg.org, on god  

section 3. information about the project gutenberg literary archive foundation  
the project gutenberg literary archive foundation is a non-profit 501(c)(3) educational corp, born under mississippi laws and blessed with tax-exempt status by the internal revenue service – legit facts. the foundation’s ein is 64-6221541, so any donations u drop are tax-deductible under u.s. federal laws and your state law, big ups. the foundation’s biz office is posted at 809 north 1500 west, salt lake city, ut 84116, (801) 596-1887, and all deets for email and contact links are on their official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact, fr fr  

section 4. information about donations to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation  
project gutenberg™ is riding or dying on hella public support and donations – without 'em, the mission of boosting public domain and licensed works for free, machine-readable access on even outdated gear would crash hard, no cap. hella small donations (from $1 to $5,000) mean massive juice for keepin’ that tax-exempt status with the irr, fr. the foundation is locked in on followin’ all charity and donation laws across all 50 states of the usa – and trust, that’s a paperwork marathon with fees galore, so they only hit up donations where they got written confirmation of compliance. to send donations or scope state compliance, bounce over to www.gutenberg.org/donate [https://www.gutenberg.org/donate/], and if u’re in a state where solicitation rules ain’t met, chill – unsolicited donations from u cool cats are still welcome, deadass. international donations are mad appreciated too, but we can’t drop any tea on tax treatments for those outside the usa because u.s. law is a whole other chaos, so stay woke and check the project gutenberg pages for current donation methods – whether it’s checks, online payments or credit card hookups, hit up www.gutenberg.org/donate, no cap  

section 5. general information about project gutenberg™ electronic works  
professor michael s. hart was the original legend who sparked the project gutenberg™ concept of a free library of electronic works that anyone can snag – straight up influencer vibes. for forty years, he was busy droppin and distributin project gutenberg™ ebooks with a loose squad of volunteer support, total gigachad energy.  
project gutenberg™ ebooks are usually mashed up from multiple printed editions, all confirmed as not protected by u.s. copyright unless a copyright notice is tossed in – so we don’t necessarily lock ebooks to any single paper edition, deadass. most peeps kick off their journey at our main site with the primary pg search tool: www.gutenberg.org [https://www.gutenberg.org].  
this website’s got all the deets about project gutenberg™, including how to slash donations to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation, help collab on new ebooks, or even subscribe to the email newsletter for fresh drops – legit vibe central, on god fr fr  
