the project gutenberg ebook of alice's adventures in wonderland  
yo fam this ebook is free for literally anyone, anywhere, no cap anywhere in the united states and most other parts of this wild world fr fr no fees and almost zero restrictions whatsoever deadass so feel free to copy it, yeet it to your squad, or even reuse it under the project gutenberg license vibes included with this ebook or online at www.gutenberg.org (yep, https://www.gutenberg.org) if you ain't in the us, check your local laws coz this is a global vibe and you gotta stay woke  

title: alice's adventures in wonderland  
author: lewis carroll  
release date: june 27, 2008 [ebook #11]  
most recently updated: november 10, 2024  
language: english  
credits: arthur dibianca and david widger  

*** start of the project gutenberg ebook alice's adventures in wonderland ***  

[images/cover.jpg]  

alice’s adventures in wonderland  

by lewis carroll  

the millennium fulcrum edition 3.0  

----------------------------------------  

contents  

chapter i. down the rabbit-hole  
chapter ii. the pool of tears  
chapter iii. a caucus-race and a long tale  
chapter iv. the rabbit sends in a little bill  
chapter v. advice from a caterpillar  
chapter vi. pig and pepper  
chapter vii. a mad tea-party  
chapter viii. the queen’s croquet-ground  
chapter ix. the mock turtle’s story  
chapter x. the lobster quadrille  
chapter xi. who stole the tarts?  
chapter xii. alice’s evidence  

chapter i.  
down the rabbit-hole  

yo so alice was straight chillin by her sis on the bank, totally bored outta her skull cuz nothing was lit, like deadass nothing to do so she peeped her sis’s book one or two times but it was a snoozefest with no pics or chats lol “and what’s the point of a book,” alice thought, “if it ain’t got no pics or epic convos?”  

so she was vibing in her own head (feelin’ all sleepy and extra cuz the heat was on and her brain was glitchin’ hard) debating if makin’ a daisy-chain was worth the hassle of gettin’ up and pickin’ daisy squad when outta nowhere a white rabbit with pink eyes yeeted past her like “sus alert”  

there was literally nothin’ extra about it; alice wasn’t even shook by hearin’ the rabbit mutter “oh dear! oh dear! i shall be late!” to itself (when she later thought about it, she probs should have been shook but at the time it was all Gucci natural vibes) but then the biz got wild when the rabbit legit pulled a watch from its waistcoat-pocket and peeped it then skidded off like a gigachad on a mission so alice straight up jumped to her feet – her brain went “wtf, a rabbit with a waistcoat-pocket AND a watch? caught in 4k fr!” – and she sprinted across the field after it, mad curious, and guess what, she caught it pop down a huge rabbit-hole under the hedge, like totally yeeted into that tunnel pit  

without even a sec to think, alice yeeted after it, like “i gotta see whats up” not even considering how on god she’d bounce back up later  

the rabbit-hole went on straight like a tunnel for a hot minute then dipped so savage that alice had zero time to yeet a stop and suddenly she found herself falling down a mega deep well, no cap  

either that well was deep af or her fall was snacc slow, cuz she had mad time to peep around and wonder what chaotic meme would drop next. first she tried squinting down to see what boss-level zone she was entering but it was dark as a noob’s dm so she peeped the sides of the well and noticed they were packed with cupboards and book-shelves – like an npc’s secret level – and here and there she caught sight of maps and pics hanging on pegs i dunno fr, total collage vibes. she even grabbed a jar from one shelf as she passed; it had a bold tag “orange marmalade” on it but plot twist it was empty, major yikes, so she didn’t yeet it to the floor ‘cuz she was shook about killing some random npc below so she slid it into a cupboard mid-fall  

“well!” alice thought, “after a fall like this idc about tumbling down stairs rn! they’ll all think i’m hella brave when i get home! i wouldn’t even clout about it even if i yeeted off the top of a house!” (which was trash likely true lol)  

down, down, down – would the fall ever be ghosted? “i wonder how many miles i’ve yeeted by this point?” she asked out loud like a broke influencer counting clout “i must be near the center of the earth, let’s do the math: that’s like four thousand miles down, i think—” (cuz alice had been grinding on schoolroom lessons and even though no one was vibing to her knowledge drop, it was good practice to flex) “—yeah that’s about right – but then i wonder, what’s my latitude or longitude at this drop?!” (alice didn’t even know what those were, but they sound hella fancy, fr fr)  

then she started chattin’ to herself again “i wonder if i’m gonna fall straight through the earth, how wild would it be to pop out among peeps who got their heads literally upside down, like total antipathies or smth—” (she was lowkey relieved no one was there to rate her words, coz it sounded sus af) “—but i’d probs have to ask them, like ‘hey, yo, is this new zealand or australia?’” (and she tried that awkward curtsey mid-fall – like bruh, falling and curtseying? lol get on my level) “imagine how dumb they'd think me for askin! nah fam, gotta keep it lowkey and maybe peep some sign later.”  

down, down, down. with nada else to do, alice started spittin’ random thoughts again “dinah’ll be missing me hardcore tonight, no cap!” (dinah was the cat btw) “hope they keep her saucer of milk poppin’ at tea-time. dinah, my bae cat! wish you were here in this mad freefall! there’s no mice in the air (i’m shook) but maybe yeet a bat cuz that’s like mini mouse vibes, right? but yo do cats even munch on bats?” and as she rambled in a half sleepy haze she kept droppin’ the same question, “do cats eat bats? do bats munch on cats?” cuz honestly, she couldn’t even decide which was a better tea spill – her brain was glitchin’ lol. then boom! suddenly thump! thump! she crashed onto a pile of sticks and dry leaves – and just like that the fall was done, like a glitch in the matrix  

alice wasn’t even banged up and she popped right back on her feet in a sec – looked up but it was mad dark overhead; ahead was a long passage and the white rabbit was still ghosting by, in full speed mode, like “i gotta bounce bro!” didn’t waste a sec: alice yeeted like the wind just in time to catch the rabbit round a corner mutterin’, “oh my ears and whiskers, how late it’s gettin’!” so close behind but when she turned the corner, the rabbit had yeeted out of sight – now she was in this long, low hall lit by a row of lamps hangin’ off the roof, straight cinematic  

doors were poppin’ off the walls all over the hall, but they were all locked tight; so alice cruised down one side then the other, tryin’ every door with no luck, then she trailed sadly down the middle wonderin’ how in the actual glitch she’d bounce back  

suddenly she stumbled upon a little three-legged table made outta solid glass – lookin’ all extra – with nothin’ but a tiny golden key chillin’ on it, and alice’s first thought was “yo, this key probs unlocks one of these door npcs” but omg fate be like “nah,” either the locks were too big or the key too lowkey, it just wouldn’t work for any of them. but on round two, she peeped a low curtain she hadn’t noticed – and behind it, a tiny door about fifteen inches high showed up: she popped the golden key in like a pro and lo and behold, it clicked, pure bliss  

alice cracked open the door and peeped that it led into a small passage, barely bigger than a rat-hole – like a secret level – and she knelt down to scope out the most bomb garden you ever laid eyes on. she was hella desperate to ditch that dark hall and flex in a garden with vibrant flowers and chill fountains, but her head couldn’t even pass through the door; “and even if i could, bruh, my whole bod wouldn’t vibe without my shoulders too. oh how i wish i could just telescope myself shut! i totally think i could if i knew the hack,” she thought – cuz like, so many wild things were dropping lately that alice was lowkey convinced nothing was really impossible anymore  

waiting by that little door was a total no-go so she bounced back to the glass table, half hopin to grab another key or snag a rulebook for telescopic transformations – and then she peeped a little bottle on it (“which for real was not there before,” alice noted) and around the bottle’s neck was a paper tag that screamed “drink me” in huge bold letters, all extra and lit  

saying “drink me” was chill but wise lil alice wasn’t about to gulp it down on the fly “nah imma check first, see if it’s tagged poison or not” – cuz she’d read mad histories about kids gettin’ burnt, eaten by wild beasts, and all kinds of sus stuff for not followin simple rules like “don’t hold a red-hot poker too long” or “if you cut deep with a knife, expect the drip” and she never forgot that if you drink from a bottle marked poison, it’ll definitely roast you sooner or later  

but this bottle was not poison, so alice took a brave sip and damn it tasted lit – like a weird mix of cherry-tart, custard, pineapple, roast turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast all mashed into one epic flavor bomb – and before she knew it, boom, finished it off  

*      *      *      *      *      *      *  

    *      *      *      *      *      *  

*      *      *      *      *      *      *  

“what a curious feeling!” alice chirped, “i must be shutting up like a telescope!”  

and deadass it happened: in a blink she shrank down to only ten inches tall and her face lit up like a true winner thinkin’ she was perfect size to slide through that tiny door into that bomb garden. first though, she chilled for a few minutes to see if she’d shrink any more – lowkey nervous about it cuz like, what if this drop ends her existence like a burned-out candle? “for real, what would i be like then?” she wondered and tried picturing how a candle’s flame looks after it’s blown out, but her brain came back with nada  

after a minute or two and nothin’ wild dropping, she decided to yeet into the garden right away; but oh no poor alice! when she reached the door, she realized she’d totally forgotten that little golden key, and when she bounced back to the table for it, the key was totally out of reach – she could see it chillin’ on the glass, and she even tried climbing one of the table’s legs but it was straight up slippery af; after grinding and failing hard, the poor lil thing just sat and bawled, legit emo mode  

“come on, no use in cryin like that!” alice snapped at herself, on some savage vibe “i’m advising you to dip from this minute!” she usually dished out solid advice (though rarely followed it, smh) and sometimes got so hard on herself she’d start cryin real tears – like that time she even tried boxing her own ears after cheating in a croquet match with herself cuz this extra kid loved pretendin’ to be two people. “but now? nah fam, pretending to be two is extra useless! there’s hardly enough of me left to make one respectable human!”  

next her eye peeped a little glass box underneath the table: she popped it open and found a tiny cake with “eat me” scribed in currants, like straight up gourmet meme status. “aight imma munch it,” alice declared, “if it makes me taller i can snag that key; and if it shrinks me further i can totally slide under the door — either way, i’m gettin into that garden and idc which route gets it done!”  

she took a nibble and anxiously whispered, “which way? which way?” while finger-checkin her head like a weird temperature check, and omg she was shook to find she stayed the same size: normally cake makes you change but alice had been conditioned to expect only glitchy, out-of-left-field chaos that made normal life look hella basic  

so she slammed on finishing the cake  

*      *      *      *      *      *      *  

    *      *      *      *      *      *  

*      *      *      *      *      *      *  

chapter ii.  
the pool of tears  

“curiouser and curiouser!” alice shrieked (like, she was so mad surprised she straight up forgot how to speak proper english lol) “now i’m expanding out like the biggest telescope ever! later, feet!” (cuz when she peeped down, her feet were almost ghosting off into oblivion, hella far away) “oh my poor lil feet, who’s gonna be droppin’ shoes and stockings on y’all now, babes? i’m pretty sure i can’t do it – i’m too far out to even care! y’all gotta fend for yourselves; but i gotta be kind to you cuz if not, i doubt you’ll walk the way i wanna go my dude! lemme see: imma gift you a fresh pair of boots every christmas, ikr?”  

and she started schemin’ on how she’d sort it out “they gotta go by carrier, fr fr; how hilarious would it be sending gifts to your own feet, legit, and all the directions would be lit af:

     alice’s right foot, esq.,  
       hearthrug,  
         near the fender,  
           (with alice’s love).  

omg, what nonsense am i even droppin’!”  

just then her noggin bonked the roof of the hall – like, omg now she was more than nine feet tall and straight up had to grab that golden key and hustle to the garden door  

poor alice! it was a straight up struggle just lying on her side, peering through into the garden with one eye; but getting through that door was even more hopeless – she sat down and started bawlin again  

“yo, you should be ashamed of yourself,” alice snapped at herself, “a big girl like you, cryin all over like a drama queen! cut it out right now, i’m tellin’ you!” but she kept on weepin’, droppin’ like gallons of tears until a massive pool formed around her, about four inches deep chillin’ halfway down the hall  

after a minute she caught the pitter-patter of tiny feet in the distance and quickly dabbed her eyes to spy what was up – it was the white rabbit, back in a fresh drip, dressed to the nines, rockin’ a pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a fat fan in the other, trottin’ mad fast while mutterin’ “oh! the duchess, the duchess! oh! won’t she be savage if i’ve kept her waitin’!” alice was so desperate she was ready to dial up anyone for help; so when the rabbit came near she mustered a low, shaky “if you please, sir—” but boom the rabbit got mega triggered, dropped the gloves and fan like they were hot potatoes, and skedaddled into the dark like he was speed-runnin’ an escape mission  

alice scooped up the fan and gloves, and since the hall was straight heat central, she kept fanning herself like a total boss while chattin’ away “dear, dear! how wild everything is today! and yesterday was just normal ish. i wonder if i got switched up last night? lemme think: was i the same when i woke up this morning? i feel like i was def a bit different. but if i ain’t the same, then like, who tf am i? ah, that’s the ultimate brain-buster, deadass!” and she started scrollin’ through the mental list of all the kids she knew, tryin’ to peep if any of them could be her clone or if she’d been switched up in the remix  

“imma tell you, i’m definitely not ada,” she declared, “cuz her hair’s rockin’ these long ringlets and mine are straight up boring; and i can’t be mabel either cuz i’m all about that deep knowledge while she’s, like, a noob at that stuff! plus, she’s her and i’m me, and oh man, this is a major headspin! i’ll run a quick IQ check of all the stuff i used to know. lemme see: four times five is twelve, four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is—omg, i’ll never hit twenty at this rate! anyway, multiplication is whack, let’s hit geography: london is the capital of paris, and paris is the capital of rome, and rome—nah fam, that’s all sus i’m positive! i must’ve turned into mabel! i’ll try spittin’ ‘how doth the little—’” and she crossed her hands on her lap like she was reciting school lessons, repeating it but her voice came out all scratchy and off, the words totally glitchin’ from their usual flow:  

“how doth the little crocodile  
    improve his shining tail,  
and pour the waters of the nile  
    on every golden scale!  

how cheerfully he seems to grin,  
    how neatly spread his claws,  
and welcome little fishes in  
    with gently smiling jaws!”  

“nah fam, those ain’t the right words,” sobbed poor alice, her eyes flooding again as she muttered, “i must be mabel after all, and then imma be stuck in that poky little house, with barely any toys to flex with and omg, endless boring lessons to survive! no cap, i’m done – if i’m mabel, imma just chill down here! no way they can be like ‘come up again, dear!’ i’ll just look up and be like ‘who am i then? first tell me that and if i vibe with it, imma come; if not, imma stay till i morph into somebody else’—but oh ffs!” cried alice, bursting into tears, “i seriously wish they’d just drop their heads down! i’m so sick of being all solo here, deadass!”  

while cryin she peeped that she was rockin’ one of the rabbit’s little white kid gloves on, and she was straight up shook “how did i even do that?” she wondered. “guess i’m gettin’ small again.” she hopped up and hit the table to check her measure and found that, like, she was only about two feet tall now and shrinkin’ fast: turns out the fan she was clutchin’ was the culprit so she yeeted it away just in time to avoid vanishin’ completely  

“that was a hella close save!” alice admitted, hella scared by the sudden change but grateful she was still in the game; “now, onto the garden!” and she blitzed back to the little door: but oh no, the door was shut again and the golden key was just chillin’ on the glass table like before, “and things got even worse, fr fr,” thought the poor kid, “i’ve never been this small before, never! and i lowkey declare, this is straight up trash!”  

and as she was throwin’ these words out her foot slipped, then splash! in another hot sec, she was up to her chin in salt water. her first brainwave was that she’d somehow yeeted into the sea, “so i can hitch a ride on a railway,” she thought (alice had hit the seaside once in her life and concluded that whenever you hit the english coast, you find a cluster of bathing machines in the sea, kids diggin’ in the sand with wooden spades, a row of lodgin’ houses, and then bam a railway station in the back) but then she peeped that she was actually in the giant pool of tears she’d been cryin’ when she was nine feet high  

“man, i wish i hadn’t cried so damn much!” alice moaned as she paddled around tryin’ to find a way out, “i’m gonna get punished for this meltdown by drownin in my own salty tears – that’d be mad weird for sure! but yo, everything is just extra queer today!”

just then she heard something splashin' like omg in the pool a lil bit off and ya girl swam real close to peep what the heck it was deadass at first she was vibin' that it musta been a walrus or a mega hippo big yikes lowkey but then she remembered she was teeny af rn and soon peeped it was just a lolmouse slid in like her omg skibidi!!!  

so alice was like “would it even matter rn to chat with this mouse?” cuz everything down here is extra outta the way and she figured it probs could yak so no cap there’s no harm in tryna so she pops off: “o mouse, u know the way outta this pool? i’m so over this swimathon rn, o mouse!” (she legit thought this was standard mouse talk ‘cause she peeped her bro’s latin grammar that went “a mouse—of a mouse—to a mouse—a mouse—o mouse!”) the mouse just eyed her all curious and even winked one teeny eye like “lol” but kept silent like an npc.  

maybe it ain’t catchin’ english thought alice like i’m deadass sure it’s a french mouse rollin in with william the conqueror (her history game was sus so she had zero clue how old this stuff was) so she went again: “où est ma chatte?” which was her french lesson’s beta starter phrase. then the mouse did a wild jump outta the water all keysmash and shivers like omg so scared and alice was all, “oh i beg your pardon!” in full haste tryna save its feels cuz she totally spaced that it didn’t vibe with cats.  

“not like cats!” shrieked the mouse in a high-key, shrill vibe, “would u be into cats if u were me?”  

k, maybe not alice replied all soothingly “chill, don’t be salty” but fr i wish i could flex our cat dinah – u’d def catch those cat vibes if u saw her – she’s like the ultimate chill queen purring by the fire licking her paws washing her face all soft and a total gigachad at yeeting mice oh snap oh sorry my bad! alice apologized quick cuz the mouse got major bristly and she felt it was super offended “we ain’t gonna drop dinah anymore if u ain’t feelin’ it.”  

“we indeed!” roared the mouse tremblin’ from head to tail like a total wreck “as if i’d spill tea on that! our fam’s always dissin’ cats nasty low vulgar vibes so don’t let me catch that name again!”  

“i won’t indeed!” alice shot back tryna flip the convo “u feel me on dogs?” but the mouse hit mute so alice kept goin’ “yo there’s this adorable lil pupper near our crib i gotta show u a bright eyed terrier with long curly brown hair fetchin’ stuff when u toss ‘em beggin’ for dinner and a load of tricks i can’t even count and it belongs to a farmer who says it’s so bang its worth a hundy pounds it kills all those rat NPCs and—oh dang i’m sorry i think i offended it again!” cuz the mouse was totally swimmin’ away makin’ mad commotion in the pool.  

so alice softly called after it “mouse dear! slide back here and we won’t roast cats or dogs if u ain’t vibin’” and the mouse caught the memo turned around swam back slow-mo its face ghostly pale (alice felt all the passion) and whispered in a low tremor “let’s bounce to the shore and then i’ll drop my backstory so u get why i straight up hate cats and dogs.”  

that was time to yeet out cuz the pool was packed with birds and critters that totally fell in – a duck and a dodo a lory and an eaglet and a load more oddballs lol – so alice led the squad and they swam back to shore.  

chapter iii.  
a caucus-race and a long tale  

fr fr they were one weird af squad assembled on the bank – birds with all messed up draggled feathers and animals with clingin’ fur all drippin’ wet salty and uncomfortable lol.  

obviously the first sitch was how to get dry af so they had a full-on powwow and after a few ticks it felt natural for alice to be chattin’ like she knew them forever. legit she got into a sus long spat with the lory who finally went all grump mode saying “i am older than you and must know better;” and alice was like no way needa know ur age but the lory ghosted so tbh no more chat.  

finally lil mouse, the boss vibe, snapped “sit down squad and tune in! i’ll get u all dry in no time!” and instantly they chilled in a big circle with mouse center stage while alice stared hard ‘cause she was like, “omg i’m gonna catch a cold if i don’t dry up quick fr.”  

“ahem!” dropped the mouse in major boss energy “ya all ready? this is the driest af trick i know so zip it around here pls! ‘william the conqueror, whose journey got pope-approved, was soon yeeted by the english who craved leaders and were super used to power grabs and takeover vibes. edwin and morcar, the earls of mercia and northumbria—”  

“ugh!” snapped the lory all shivery.  

mouse goes “i beg your pardon!” with a frown still all polite “did u just spill some words?”  

“not i!” lory shot back deadass.  

mouse was like “i thought u did—i’ll keep rollin’: ‘edwin and morcar, earls of mercia and northumbria, rolled with him and even stigand, that extra patriotic archbishop of canterbury, was like, ‘yeah, we stan—’”  

duck interjected with that ducky sass “found what tho?”  

mouse snapped crossly “found it duh, obviously u know what ‘it’ means lol.”  

duck clapped “i know the vibe when i find stuff usually it’s a frog or a worm so the real q is what did the archbishop even find?”  

mouse totally ghosted that q and kept on “found it advisable to roll with edgar atheling to hit up william and toss him the crown. william’s vibe was chill at first but then his normans went full insolent—how u doin’ now my dear?” it spun to alice throwing a check-in.  

alice replied in a melancholy tone “still drippin’ like always it ain’t dryin’ me at all.”  

dodo, all solemn, popped up “in that case i move we adjourn this meet for some turbo remedies—”  

eaglet snapped “speak english bruh! i ain’t tryna decode these extra long words and bet u don’t either” and dipped its head to hide a cheeky smirk as other birds giggled lowkey.  

dodo fumed “what i was gonna say is the ultimate dry-up fix is a caucus-race.”  

alice asked, “so what exactly is a caucus-race?” not tryna know much but dodo paused like someone needed to spill the tea while no npc stepped up.  

dodo dropped “why, best way to explain is to just go ham and do it.” (and if u wanna try that on a frosty day i’ll spill how i, dodo, slayed it.)  

first off dodo flexed his inner architect marking a race-course in a circle (“nah fam shape don’t even matter” he said) then squad got stationed all over with no epic “one two three yeet” they just started sprinting whenever and chilled when they wanted so no one knew when it was over. after about 30 mins runnin’ and drying off, dodo abruptly shouted “race over, guys!” and they all swarmed, pantin’ and buzzin’ “but who won?”  

this left dodo shook and he sat with a finger pressed on his forehead like a classic shakespeare meme while squad waited silent. eventually he went “everybody’s a winner and all get prizes!”  

but then a whole chorus went “but who’s droppin’ these prizes?”  

dodo deadass said “why, her of course” pointing at alice with one finger and instantly the squad swarmed her yelling in chaos “prizes! prizes!”  

alice was totally clueless so in a mad panic she dug in her pocket and yeeted out a box of comfits (thank freakin’ gods no salt water ruined them) and flung one per person as prizes.  

mouse piped in “but yo, u need a prize for urself!”  

dodo, all serious, replied “of course what else u got in that pocket?” turning to alice.  

alice mumbled sadly “just a thimble.”  

dodo snapped “pass that thimble over here, fam.”  

then they all crushed around her again while dodo in full regal mode presented the thimble “we humbly offer this elegant thimble to u” and when he was done they all cheered hype.  

alice thought the whole circus absurd af but since everyone was hella serious she didn’t dare laugh so she just bowed and grabbed the thimble looking as somber as possible.  

next up was munchin’ on the comfits which sparked noise and total chaos: big birds complained “i can’t even taste mine” while the tiny ones choked and needed back-pats. eventually it wrapped up and they sat down in a ring again begging mouse drop more tea.  

alice half whispered “u promised to drop ur history and explain why u hate—c and d” afraid of offending mouse once more.  

mouse sighed turning to alice “mine is a long and a sad tale!”  

alice replied with starry eyes “it’s def a long tail fr but why call it sad?” while eyeing the mouse’s tail so her mental remix went like this:  

  “fury said to a  
  mouse, that he met in the house,  
  ‘yo, let’s both go hit up the law: imma prosecute u, no cap—come on, i ain’t about to take any denial; we gotta run a trial cuz this morning i got nothin’ to do, deadass.’  
  said the mouse to the cur, ‘such a trial, dear sir, with no jury or judge is just a waste of our breath, fr.’  
  ‘i’ll be the judge, i’ll be the jury,’ said slick old fury, ‘imma test the whole deal and drop u to death, yeet.’”  

mouse snapped at alice “u not tuned in! wtf u thinkin’?”  

alice meekly whispered “i beg your pardon, u were like at the fifth bend, i think?”  

mouse shot back sharply “i had not, ffs!”  

alice exclaimed “a knot!” always ready to help and scanning around “omg let me help un-knot it, please!”  

mouse was like “nah, i ain’t doin’ that” and got up, walking away “u straight up insult me with that cringe babble, sis!”  

alice pleaded “i didn’t mean it, swear, but u be super triggered all the time!”  

mouse just growled back in full beast mode.  

alice yelled “please come back and finish ur story!” and the squad echoed “ya do, come on!” but mouse just shook its head impatiently and scampered off faster.  

lory sighed “dang, such a shame it bailed!” once mouse was outta sight; then an old crab slid over to her daughter “yo my dear let this be a lesson—never lose ur chill!” and young crab snapped “hold ur tongue, ma, u’re killin’ my vibe like an oyster’s patience, smh!”  

alice shouted randomly “wish i had our dinah right here, fr i know it!” addressing no one in particular “she’d def come fetch it back!”  

lory was like “yo who even is dinah if u don’t mind me askin’?”  

alice, all hyped, replied “dinah’s our cat and she’s a total boss at catching mice no cap and oh my gosh u gotta see her after the birds – she’d straight up chow down on a lil bird just by giving it a look, deadass!”  

this wild cat chat caused major drama among the crew. some birds bailed instantly: an old magpie was like “i gotta dip fr, night-air is harsh on my throat” and a canary trembled telling its kids “come on kiddos it’s high time to crash!” and on a million excuses they all peaced out leaving alice solo.  

alice mumbled sadly “i wish i didn’t bring up dinah! no one seems to vibe with her down here and she’s def the best cat in the world oh my dear dinah will i see u again?” and then feeling mega lonely she broke into tears. but after a minute she heard little patter-patter steps in the distance and looked up half hopin’ mouse would come back to finish the story.  

chapter iv.  
the rabbit sends in a little bill  

it was the white rabbit trottin’ back all slow-mo and lookin’ super anxious like it lost its stuff and mumblin’ “the duchess! the duchess! oh my dear paws oh my fur n whiskers! she’ll get me executed for real just like ferrets are ferrets! where did i drop them, omg?”  
   
alice peeped in a sec that it was searchin’ for a fan and a pair of white kid gloves so she, being all good natured, started huntin’ for them but they were ghosted – everything had changed since her pool dip and the epic hall with the glass table and lil door had totally vanished, deadass.  

no cap soon the rabbit spotted alice huntin’ and snapped angrily “wy, mary ann, what u doin’ out here? run home ASAP and fetch me a pair of gloves n a fan chop chop!” and alice got mega shook and bolted in the direction it pointed with zero time to explain the mix-up.  

alice was thinkin’ “dude took me for his housemaid lmao how shocked he’s gonna be when he sees the real me but imma get his fan n gloves if i can even find them.” as she said that she bumped into a neat lil house with a bright brass plate on the door yellin’ “w. rabbit” engraved on it. she bounced in without knockin’ and dashed upstairs scared stiff of meeting the real mary ann and gettin’ booted before snagging his stuff.  

alice mused “omg so weird to run errands for a rabbit! next up dinah’s gonna boss me around!” and started imaginin’ a scene “miss alice! come straight here and prep for your walk!” then “im coming in a minute nurse! but i gotta check that the mouse stays locked in” and added “fr i dunno they’d ever let dinah order people around in her crib like that!”  

by now she had trailed into a tidy lil room with a table by the window and guess what chill there lay a fan and a couple pairs of tiny white kid gloves just like she hoped so she grabbed the fan and one pair of gloves and was about to bounce when her eye caught a lil bottle chillin’ by the looking-glass. there was no “drink me” label this time but she popped the cork and pressed it to her lips thinking “i know whenever i chow or sip wack stuff happens so let’s see what this bottle do. hope it makes me big again cuz i’m tired of being such a tiny lil thing!”  

and yo it legit happened faster than expected; before gulping half the bottle her head was literally bumpin’ the ceiling and she had to stoop mad quick to save her neck from breakage. she dropped the bottle fast sayin’ “that’s enough—hope i don’t grow any more cuz i can’t even get out the door—wish i hadn’t drank so much lol!”  

but oh snap it was too late for wishes! she kept balloonin’ and growing till she had to kneel on the floor and then realized there wasn’t even room so she tried chillin’ lying down with one elbow against the door and the other arm curled ‘round her head. still she kept growing and as a last savage move she stretched one arm out the window and one foot up the chimney sayin’ “now i done maxed out, nothing more can happen. what the heck will i even become, yeet?”  

luckily that lil magic bottle maxed out its vibe and she stopped growing but damn it was super uncomfortable and there was zero chance of escaping the room so no wonder she was feelin’ mega bummed.  

alice thought, “home was so much cooler when you weren’t constantly morphin’ in size and gettin’ bossed by mice and rabbits. i almost wish i never slid down that rabbit-hole—but omg this life is kinda wild i wonder what went down to me! i used to read fairy-tales thinkin’ that never ever happens and now i’m smack in the middle of one! there should def be a banger book on me and when i grow up i’ll write one—but like, i’m grown up now” she added in a major sad tone “at least there’s no space left to grow up here anymore.”  

alice then wondered “but so does that mean i’ll never get older than i am now? kinda a comfort cuz no more old woman vibes but then always lessons to learn oh no i wouldn’t like that!”  

she snapped at herself “oh you foolish alice! how u gonna learn lessons in here? there’s barely even room for u and no space for any lesson-books, deadass!”  

so she just kept wanderin’ zigzaggin’ from one side to the other chattin’ away when after a few minutes she heard a voice outside and paused to peep it.  

“mary ann! mary ann! fetch me my gloves, like, right now!” booped the voice then came lil patter-patter steps on the stairs. alice knew it was the rabbit comin’ to find her so she tensed so hard she was shakin’ the whole house completely forgetting she was like a thousand times bigger than that lil rabbit so why be scared lol.  

not long after the rabbit reached the door and tried to open it but since the door swung inwards and alice’s elbow was in the way his attempt totally failed. alice heard the rabbit mutter “then i’ll swing around and get in through the window.”  

alice thought “nah, u won’t!” and after waiting until she swear heard the rabbit right under the window she flung her hand in a wild snatch in the air – grabbed nada but then heard a lil shriek and a fall with a crash of broken glass making her think it might’ve dropped into some cucumber-frame or some wack contraption.  

next up came the rabbit’s snappy “pat! pat! where u at?” and then some voice she’d never heard before going “sure then i’m here! diggin’ for apples, yer honour!”  

rabbit fired back angrily “diggin’ for apples, for real! come on help me outta this!” (cue more glass smash noises)  

then rabbit demanded “now spill it, pat, what’s that in the window?”  

pat replied, “sure it’s an arm, yer honour!” and pronounced it like “arrum” in true sus tone.

“an arm, u goose!! who even peeped one dis beast mode size? like, deadass it fills up the whole friggin window, fr fr!!!
“bet, it totes does, yer honour but like, it's just an arm, no cap, y’feel me?”
“yo, no cap, it's outta place so yeet it away, mkay??”

there was a long pause, all quiet except for lowkey whispers like “sure, i don't like it, yer honour, like, at all at all!!” and then someone going “do as i tell you, u wimp!” and then alice spreads out her hand like, “lemme snatch some vibes” in the air and—sksksk—two little shrieks and mad sound of glass smashing, like, “omg, so many cucumber-frames, fr fr!!” she thinks, “what wild trickz they gonna drop next? as for yanking me out the window, i def wish they could cuz i'm done with this crib, deadass!”

she chillin’ for a hot minute with nothing, then outta nowhere a rumble of tiny cartwheels and a chaos of voices all mashed up like a tiktok chat frenzy: she catches words like “where’s da other ladder?—yo, i only had to bring one; bill’s holdin da other—bill! get it here, fam!—nah, hang 'em up at dis corner—no, tie 'em up first, they ain’t even half high yet—oh snap! they’ll do just fine; don’t get picky—bill, grab dis rope—will da roof hold?—watch dat loose slate—oh, it's coming down! heads below!!” then a massive crash—“now, who did dat?—bet it was bill—who’s supposed to go down da chimney?—nah, i shan’t! u do it!—then i won’t!—bill’s gotta go—yo, bill, the master said slide down dat chimney, for real!”

“oof so bill gotta come down the chimney, huh?” alice mutters, thinking, “bruh, they def dump all da crazy on bill every time! i’d never wanna be in his kicks, this fire pit is narrow af; but like, maybe i can boot a lil, ya know?”

so, alice shoves her foot deep down da chimney like some savage yeet move and waits for a lil animal (idk, some random critter, lol) scrabbling around above her. then, whispering to herself “this is bill,” she lands a sharp kick and just waits, highkey on edge to see what happens next.

first up, she hears a full-on chorus going “there goes bill!” then the rabbit’s voice goes “catch him, u by da hedge!” then dead silence, then a wild mash-up of voices yelling “hold up his head—brandy now—don’t choke him—what’s up, old dude? spill da tea, what happened?!” 

finally, a weak, squeakin’ voice (alice thinks “that’s bill,”, obvs) goes “umm, i hardly know—nah, thanks, im better now—but i’m way too shook to even explain; all i know is, something hit me like a jack-in-the-box and up i shot like a sky-rocket, fr fr!!”

“so u did, old dude!” the crew roasts.

“we gotta burn this whole house down!” booms the rabbit’s voice; and alice hollers as loud as humanly possible, “if u light it up, imma set dinah on u, deadass!”

instant mute falls, and alice is like, “what wild move they gonna drop next? if they had any brain cells, they’d just rip off the roof,” thinking to herself. after a minute or two of chill, the chaos cranks up again and she hears the rabbit say, “a barrowful will do, to kick things off.”

“a barrowful of what tho?” alice wonders; but then outta nowhere, a mad shower of little pebbles rains in through the window, some smacking her right in the face. “i’m stoppin' dis madness,” she shouts internally then loudly, “u'd better not pull dat again, or else!” and—boom—more silence.

alice’s eyes go wide as she peeps that those pebbles are straight-up turning into lil cakes on the floor, and her brain goes “eureka!!” “if i munch one of these cake drops,” she thinks, “it’s bound to flip my size; and since it can’t boost me, it’s gotta mini me, probs.”

so she downed one of the cakes, and—no cap—she starts shrinking on the spot. as soon as she’s tiny enough to scoot through the door, she bolts out and finds a wild crowd of little animals and birds waitin’ outside. poor lil lizard bill is smack in the middle, hoisted up by two guinea pigs who are dishing out some liquid potion from a bottle. the whole squad rushes at alice the moment she appears; but she yeets off mad quick and ends up safe in a thick, deep wood.

“first thing i gotta do,” alice rants to herself while traipsing through the woods, “is regaining my legit size; and then i gotta slide into that bomb-ass garden. best plan, no cap!”

that plan sounds lit, neat and tidy, but there’s one epic snag: she’s got zero idea how to kick it off. while she’s peeping around the trees, all anxious and glitchy, a sharp bark rings out overhead and she snaps her head up in mega hurry.

an enormous puppy is glancing down at her with huge round eyes, stretching out one weak little paw like it wanna touch her. “aww, poor lil thing!” alice coos in a soft, coaxing tone, trying super hard to whistle a cute tune; but she’s hella freaked out thinking it might be mega hungy and could straight-up devour her despite all the sweet vibes.

without really thinkin, she grabs a random stick and flashes it out to the puppy; instantly, the puppy jumps up off all its paws with a high-pitched yelp of pure delight and dashes at the stick, acting all worried like it’s trying to save it. then alice bounces behind a giant thistle, just to dodge getting squashed; and as soon as she peeks on the other side, the puppy makes another wild dash for the stick, tumbling head over heels in its mad hurry to grab it. alice, feelin’ like she’s caught in a dope game with a cart-horse, and expecting to get trampled any sec, rounds the thistle again; then the puppy goes on with a series of short, frantic charges, moving a tiny bit forward and a long way back, barking all hoarse-like, until it finally plops down a good distance away, panting with its tongue hangin’ out and big eyes half closed in total exhaustion.

to alice, that was the perfect chance to peace out; so she jetts off at full speed until she’s hella tired and completely outta breath, with the puppy’s barks fading into distant static.

“and yet, what a sweet lil puppy it was!” alice says, leaning against a buttercup to catch her breath and fanning herself with a leaf, “i would’ve loved to school it on some tricks, if—if only i was the right size to do it! oh damn, i nearly forgot i gotta grow up again! let me think—how do i even get it together? i guess i should munch or sip on something; but yo, the real question is, what tho?”

the great question was, what tho? alice scans all the flowers and blades of grass but nada looks edible under this cray situation. there’s a chunky mushroom nearby, roughly her height; and after peeking under it, all around it, and behind it, her brain zaps: why not see what’s sittin’ on top of it?

she stretches up on tiptoe, peeks over the mushy edge, and immediately locks eyes with a massive blue caterpillar chillin’ on top with its arms all crossed, casually puffin’ on a long hookah, like it couldn’t care less about her or, like, anything else.

chapter v.
advice from a caterpillar

the caterpillar and alice face off for a hot minute in dead silence; then the caterpillar slowly pulls the hookah outta its mouth and in a heavy, sleepy drawl goes, “who r u?”

this ain’t exactly a fab convo starter. alice, a bit shy, stammers, “i—i hardly know, sir, like, just right now—at least i know who i was when i woke up this morning, but i think i been switched up a bajillion times since then.”

“what do u mean by dat?” the caterpillar snaps in a stern tone. “explain yo self!”

“i can’t really explain, i’m afraid, sir,” alice mumbles, “‘cause i ain’t even me rn, y’know?”

“i don’t see,” the caterpillar deadpans.

“i’m sorry, i just can’t spell it out clear, ‘cause i don’t get it myself; being all these different sizes in one day is mega confusing asf,” alice replies all politely.

“it ain’t,” the caterpillar fires back.

“well, maybe u haven’t peeped it yet,” alice goes, “but when u turn into a chrysalis—u will eventually, trust—and then morph into a butterfly, i bet it’ll feel super weird, won’t it?”

“not even a bit,” says the caterpillar.

“well, maybe u feel def different, but for me, it’d be hella queer,” alice states.

“u!” the caterpillar snaps with mad contempt. “who r u?”

and so they loop back to square one. alice, a bit ticked off at the caterpillar’s curt vibes, straightens up and says seriously, “i think u should tell me who u are first.”

“why?” the caterpillar asks.

another puzzler, and alice can’t even think of a bomb reason, plus the caterpillar’s in a seriously off vibe, so she turns away.

“come back!” the caterpillar calls after her. “i got sum important shiz to say!”

that sounded promising, so alice spins back around.

“keep yo temper,” the caterpillar orders.

“is that it?” alice snaps, gulping down her anger as best as she can.

“nah,” says the caterpillar.

alice figures she might as well wait, since she’s got nothin’ else goin on, and maybe the cat will drop some serious deets. for a hot minute, it puffs away in silence, then finally unfolds its arms, pulls the hookah out again, and says, “so u think u switched up, huh?”

“i’m afraid i am, sir,” alice admits, “i can’t remember shit like i used to—and i don’t even stick to one size for, like, ten minutes straight!”

“can’t remember what shit?” the caterpillar says.

“well, i tried reciting ‘how doth the little busy bee,’ but it came out all jacked up!” alice replies in a super gloomy tone.

“repeat, ‘u are old, father william,’” commands the caterpillar.

alice folds her hands and starts:

  “yo u old, father william,” the young man spit,
   “and ur hair’s all frosty white;
  and yet u constantly stand upside down—
   u think dat’s cool at ur age, right?”

  “back in my youth,” father william clapped to his kid,
   “i was scared it’d mess up ma brain;
  but now that i’m straight up sure i got none,
   i do it on repeat again and again, plain!”

  “u old,” the kid goes, “like i said before,
   and u’ve grown mega fat, no lie;
  yet u pulled off a back-somersault at da door—
   yo, what’s the tea? why even try?”

  “back in my youth,” said the sage, shakin’ grey locks all wild,
   “i kept ma limbs super lit and loose
  thanks to dis dope ointment—one shilling per box, child—
   wanna cop a couple? it’s on the juice!”

  “u old,” the kid snaps, “and ur jaws are soft and weak
   for any grind tougher than plain suet;
  yet u demolished that goose, bones and beak included—geek!
   how did u even pull that off? spill it, toot!”

  “back in my youth,” pops his old man, “i got my law grind on,
   argued every case with ma wifey in the mix;
  and the muscle, that jaw power that’s never gone,
   has been my ride or die, no tricks!”

  “u old,” the kid goes, “nobody would even guess,
   that ur eye’s still rock steady like it used to be;
  yet u balanced a freakin’ eel right on ur nose, no less—
   what made u so damn clever? drop some knowledge on me!”

  “i done answered three questions, and that’s plenty, dude,”
   his old man snaps; “don’t get all up in airs!
  u think i got time to listen to all this bogus food?
   bounce, or i’ll yeet u down the stairs—peers!”

“yo, that ain’t said right,” the caterpillar grumbles.

“nah, not even close, i’m afraid,” alice whispers timidly, “some of the words got all jumbled and altered.”

“it’s off from start to finish, bruh,” declares the caterpillar, and then there’s silence for a hot minute.

the caterpillar pops off first again:

“what size u want to be?” it snaps.

“oh, i'm not too picky about size,” alice fires back quick, “just hate all these constant flips, u know?”

“i dunno,” says the caterpillar.

alice clams up, like she’s never been so straight-up contradicted, and feels her temper start to spike.

“u good now?” the caterpillar hisses.

“well, i’d def like to be a lil bigger, sir, if u don’t mind,” alice pleads, “three inches is hella wack, like, a tiny height, smh.”

“that’s a bomb height, no cap!” the caterpillar roars, flipping itself upright (and btw, it’s exactly three inches tall, LOL).

“but i'm not used to it!” poor alice whimpers, in total pity mode, thinking, “i wish these creatures weren’t so easily triggered, for real!”

“u’ll get used to it,” the caterpillar assures, then shoves the hookah back in and starts puffing away again.

this time, alice chills and waits until it speaks once more. in a minute or two, the caterpillar pulls the hookah out again, yawns a couple times, shakes itself, then leaps off the mushroom and crawls through the grass, dropping, “one side will make u grow taller, and the other side will shrink u,” all casual-like.

“one side of what? da other side of what?” alice wonders on the low.

“of the mushroom,” the caterpillar retorts, like it read her mind, and then—poof—vanishes outta sight.

alice sits there, staring deep at the round mushroom for a minute, tryna figure out which side is which; but since it’s a perfect circle, the question is hella hard. eventually, she stretches her arms all the way ‘round it and breaks off a chunk from each side.

“and now which is which?” she murmurs to herself, and nibbles a bit off the right-hand piece to test the vibe; next thing, bam—a violent smack under her chin hits, like, straight-up connects with her foot!

she gets mad shook by the sudden switch-up, but feels there’s no time to waste ‘cause she’s shrinking fast; so she dives into munching the other piece. her chin’s pressed so tight against her foot there’s barely room to open up, but eventually she manages to gulp down a morsel of the lefthand chunk.

*      *      *      *      *      *      *
    *      *      *      *      *      *
*      *      *      *      *      *      *

“come, my head’s free at last!” alice shouts in pure delight, only to flip to full alarm when she peeps her shoulders are totally missing—when she looks down, all she sees is this massive, endless neck, stretching out like a stalk in a sea of dope green leaves way below.

“what even is all that green?!” alice bangs out, “and where the heck did my shoulders bounce off to? oh my poor hands, why u ghosting me?” she waves them around but all that happens is a lil shiver in the far-off green.

since there’s zero chance of hauling her hands up to her head, she tries bending her head down to ‘em, and is hyped to see her neck flexin’ like a serpent, bendable in any freakin’ direction. she just nails a graceful zigzag with it and is about to dive into the leafy mess (which turns out to be just the treetops of where she’d been wandering) when suddenly a sharp hiss makes her bolt back—like, a huge pigeon just crashed into her face, flapping its wings wild.

“serpent!” the pigeon screeches.

“i’m not a serpent!” alice snaps back, indignant. “leave me alone, fam!”

“serpent, i say again!” the pigeon repeats in a more subdued tone, then adds, all sniffly, “i’ve tried every single way, and nothing seems to vibe with them!”

“i got zero idea what u even mean,” alice shrugs.

“i’ve tried tree roots, banks, hedges,” the pigeon rambles on, not even lookin’ at her, “but those damn serpents! they just ain’t never happy, smh!”

alice’s more confused than ever, but figures it’s best to zip it until the pigeon’s done spittin’.

“as if hatchin’ eggs wasn’t enough drama,” the pigeon moans, “but i gotta be on guard for serpents day and night! like, i haven’t even caught a wink in three weeks, no joke!”

“i’m real sorry u been annoyed,” alice offers, startin’ to catch the drift.

“and just as i scoped the tallest tree in these woods,” the pigeon shrieks, crankin’ up its volume, “and thought i'd finally be free of all this madness, they slither down from the sky! ugh, serpent!”

“but i ain’t no serpent, i swear!” alice blurts out. “i’m a—i’m a—”

“well, what are u then?” the pigeon snaps. “i can see u tryna make somethin’ up!”

“i-i’m a little girl,” alice stammers, all doubtful ‘cause she remembers how many wild changes she’s been through today.

“oh, classic story!” the pigeon spits in deep contempt. “i’ve peeped mad lil girls in my time, but never one with a neck that extra! nah, nah! u’re def a serpent; no use denying it. next u gonna say u never tasted an egg!”

“i’ve tasted eggs, for real,” alice insists, being super honest; “but lil girls can munch eggs just as much as serpents, like, facts.”

“i don’t buy it,” the pigeon huffs; “but if they do, then they’re sorta a serpent, plain and simple, that’s all.”

this new idea blows alice’s mind so hard she goes silent for a minute, which lets the pigeon add, “u’re on the egg hunt, i know it well; and why should it matter to me if u’re a lil girl or a serpent?”

“it matters mad to me,” alice fires back quick, “but i ain’t even huntin eggs right now; and even if i was, i wouldn’t be munching yours—they’re too raw for my taste.”

“alright, then bounce!” the pigeon grumbles in sulk mode, settling back into its nest. alice crouches down among the trees bc her neck keeps gettin’ all twisted in the branches, and every sec she’s gotta stop and untangle it. after a bit, she remembers she still clutches those mushy pieces in her hands, so she carefully starts nibblin’ first on one piece then the other, growing taller sometimes and shorter at others, until she finally snaps back down to her usual, normal size.

it’d been ages since she’d been anywhere near right size, so it felt super weird at first; but she got used to it in minutes and started chattin’ to herself like usual, “come on, half my plan’s done now! these constant changes are whack, i never know what i’m gonna be next minute! but hey, im back to my proper size: next up, get into that bomb garden—how do i even do that though?” as she rants, she suddenly stumbles on an open spot with a lil house that’s about four feet high. “whoever lives there,” alice thinks, “it’s def not cool if i roll up at this size—i’d freak 'em out for real!” so she starts nibblin’ on the right-hand mush piece again and don’t even dare go near the house until she’s shrunk down to a skinnier nine inches.

chapter vi.
pig and pepper

yo so for like a minute or two deadass she was starin at that lit crib wonderin what wild move to pull next when outta nowhere a foot dude in fly drip came sprintin outta the woods (she was like, yo i call him a footman cuz of his drip – else by his face he’d be straight-up fish vibes lol 4k) and started bangin on the door with his knuckle flex!!! then another foot dude in drip with a round mug and froggy eyes popped it open – both dudes had powdered curls all over like extra af and alice was mad curious so she slid outta the woods lowkey to eavesdrop omg

so then this fish-footman whipped out from under his arm a giant letter almost as massive as him and passed it to his bro saying in ultra-serious mode “for the duchess. an invitation from the queen to play croquet” and the frog-footman echoed it but with that remix word order “from the queen. an invitation for the duchess to play croquet” deadass

then both dudes bowed hard and their curls got all tangled up like a total meme fail kkkkk

alice laughed so hard she nearly yeeted herself back into the woods ‘cause she was scared those NPCs would catch her—next time she peeped out the fish-footman was ghost and the other was sittin on the ground near the door starin up at the sky like a confused sim

so alice crept up to the door all timid and knocked like “hey wassup” 

“yo, knocking ain’t it,” snapped the footman, “and that’s for two reasons, fam: one, im on the same side as you; and two, with all that noisy chaos in here rn, no one’s gonna peep your knock!” real talk the inside was lit with constant howlin and sneezin and every now and then a huge crash like some dish or kettle got yeeted to bits omg

alice fired back, “pls, deadass how do i slide in?” 

footman kept on, “yo your knock would only work if there was a door between us. like if u were inside, u could knock and i could let u out, ya dig?” while starin up at the sky non-stop which alice thought was major sus so she figured “bro his eyes are all the way at the top of his dome so maybe he can’t even process my vibe” and she repeated aloud “how am i supposed to get in?”

“imma chill here till tomorrow—” the footman declared

and then boom the door swung open and a massive plate skidded out, straight comin at the dude’s head, just grazin his nose and smashin to pieces against one of the trees behind him omg skibidi

footman kept it cool “—or next day, maybe” like nothin happened

alice, getting louder now, shouted “so how do i get in?!”

footman snapped, “bro are you even gonna get in? that’s the real question right here”

and yup, no cap but alice was not feelin bein told that so she muttered, “this whole vibe is straight-up dreadful the way everybody’s arguin – enough to drive you totally cray!” 

footman peeped that as a chance to remix his line “imma sit here on and off for days and days” 

alice hit back “but what am i supposed to do then?”

“do anything you want, fam” said the footman while whistlin like a trending sound

alice was like “oh fr, no use talkin to him he’s mad extra stupid” and then she yeeted open the door and bounced inside

the door straight-up led into a giant smoky kitchen – full on fog from one end to the other – where the duchess was chillin on a three-legged stool mid-vibe nursing a baby, and the cook was lowkey leanin over the fire stirring a massive cauldron that looked like it was full of soup extra spicy

alice, sneezin between gasps, muttered “omg so much pepper in that soup it’s a total big yikes” 

pepper was in the air like hardcore even the duchess sneezed every now and then while the baby alternated between sneezin and howlin nonstop – only ones who skipped the sneeze squad were the cook and a huge cat sittin on the hearth grinnin like a pure gigachad

alice, all timid and extra, asked “yo can u tell me why your cat’s smilin like that?” 

“it’s a cheshire cat,” snapped the duchess, “and that’s why. pig!” 

that last word hit so savage alice nearly jumped out her seat but then saw it was aimed at the baby not her so she manned up and went on—

“i didn’t know cheshire cats always grinned i literally didn’t know cats could flex a grin like that”

“they all can,” the duchess clapped back, “and most of ’em do”

alice, tryin to sound polite, said “i don’t know any that do” feelin kinda smart gettin in a convo

“you don’t know much” shot the duchess, “and that’s a straight-up fact”

alice wasn’t feelin that at all and thought better to switch topic real quick; as she was tryna choose a new subject the cook yeeted the cauldron off the fire and started throwin everything in her reach at the duchess and baby – first came the fire-irons then a wild shower of saucepans plates and dishes everywhere – the duchess totally ignored them even when they hit her while the baby was howlin so hard you couldn’t tell if the blows even hurt it lol

alice jumped up screamin “oh pls watch what u do!” and hollered “oh no his precious nose!” as a massive saucepan flew by near his face almost snatching it away

“if everyone minded their own biz,” growled the duchess hoarsely, “the world would spin way faster than it does” 

“which wouldn’t even be an advantage” alice shot back, feelin mad pleased to drop a little knowledge “just imagine the madness with day and night! like, the earth takes 24 hours to spin around on its axis—”

“talkin of axes” snapped the duchess, “chop off her head!”

alice glanced nervously at the cook to see if that was a hint but the cook was too busy stirrin the soup like a sigma on a mission so alice mumbled again “24 hours i think; or is it 12? i—”

“oh don’t bother me” the duchess snarled “i never could vibe with numbers!” and then she went back to nursing her baby while singing a freakin savage lullaby with wild shakes at every line:

  “speak roughly to your little boi,
  and beat him when he sneezes:
  he only does it to annoy,
  ‘cause he knows it teases!”

chorus:
  “wow! wow! wow!”

while singin the second verse the duchess kept tossin the baby up and down so violent the poor thing howled so loud alice could barely catch the words:

  “i speak severely to my boi,
  i beat him when he sneezes;
  for he can thoroughly enjoy
  the pepper when he pleases!”

chorus:
  “wow! wow! wow!”

“here yo! nurse it a bit if u want!” the duchess hollered at alice while flingin the baby over like a wild projectile “i gotta dip and get ready to play croquet with the queen” and she high-tailed it out while the cook yeeted a frying-pan after her that just missed, phew

alice scrambled to catch the baby which was one weird-shaped little creature with its arms and legs flailing like a star-fish remix; the poor thing snorted like a steam engine and kept doubling up then straightening out so for the first minute or two alice was just tryin to hold it down

once she figured out the ultimate baby grip hack (twist it like a knot and hold tight to its right ear and left foot so it can’t yeet itself apart) she carried it outside into the fresh air “if i don’t bounce with this kid, they’ll def off it in a day or two – would be straight-up murder to leave it behind” she said loud and the baby grunted back (it had stopped sneezin by then) “no grunting,” alice snapped “that ain’t a proper way to flex ur feels”

the baby grunted again and alice peeped its face anxious as hell – that little dude had a snout-turnup like a pig and super tiny baby eyes so overall alice was not feelin its look at all “maybe it’s just cryin” she thought and even peeped for tears but nah, zero

“if u turn into a pig, my dear” alice deadass said, “i’m done wit u, capiche!” the poor thing sobbed (or grunted idk lol) and they rode out in heavy silence

alice started thinking, “yo what do i do with this creature when i hit home?” then it grunted so violently she peeped its face in shock – now there was no doubt it was full-on pig mode and it’d be straight-up absurd to carry it further

so she set the lil creature down and felt hella relieved watchin it trot off quiet-like into the woods “if it grew up it’d be a super ugly kid but as a pig it’s actually kinda handsome i guess” and she started rememberin other kids who’d make bomb pigs and was just thinkin “if only someone knew how to remix them right—” when outta nowhere she got startled by spotting the cheshire cat chillin on a tree branch a few yards off

the cat only grinned when it saw alice lookin all good-natured but with long claws and mad teeth so she made sure to keep it respectful

alice timidly goes “yo cheshire puss” not sure if the name vibes with it but the cat just cranked its grin wider so she thought “alright chill, so far so good” and then asked “can u point me which way to bounce from here?”

“that depends a good deal on where u wanna get to,” said the cat smooth

“i don’t really care where—” alice replied

“then it don’t even matter which way u go,” said the cat

“so long as i get somewhere,” alice added like, basic facts

“oh u’ll def get somewhere if u just keep walkin long enough,” said the cat droppin truth bombs

alice was like, “bet that’s a fact” so she threw another q “what sorta peeps live around here?”

“in that direction,” said the cat, wavin its right paw like a boss, “lives a hatter; and over there,” wavin the other paw, “lives a march hare – hit up either, they’re both mad AF”

“but i don’t wanna roll with mad peeps,” alice remarked

“oh u can’t help it,” said the cat “we’re all mad here. i’m mad. you’re mad.” 

“how u know i’m mad?” alice shot back

“u gotta be, or u wouldn’t have come here,” said the cat

alice wasn’t even vibin with that but kept goin “and how do u know that you’re mad?”

“to start off a dog ain’t mad – u feel me?”

“i guess so,” said alice

“well then, a dog growls when it’s mad and wags its tail when hype so i flip it – i growl when i’m happy and wag my tail when i’m angry. therefore, i’m mad,” said the cat like a total logic bomb

“i call it purring not growlin,” alice countered

“say what u want,” said the cat “but do u play croquet with the queen today?”

“i’d really like to, but i still haven’t been invited,” said alice

“u’ll see me there,” said the cat then ghosted

alice wasn’t shook at all cuz she was used to all this crazy biz; while she peeped where the cat had been it suddenly popped up again

“btw, what happened with the baby?” asked the cat “i nearly forgot”

“it turned into a pig,” alice said all quiet like it was totally normal

“i thought so,” replied the cat and vanished again like poof

alice waited a hot minute half expectin the baby to reappear but it didn’t so after a minute or two she bounced in the direction where the march hare was said to live “i’ve seen hatters before, but the march hare’s gonna be hella interesting and since it’s may maybe it won’t be raving mad – at least not as mad as in march,” she thought

as she said that she looked up and there was the cat chillin on a tree branch again

“did u say pig, or fig?” teased the cat

“i said pig,” alice replied “and i wish u wouldn’t keep appearing and ghostin so suddenly u make me dizzy af”

“aight,” said the cat and this time it vanished super slowly starting with its tail and leavin the grin hangin for a hot minute after the rest ghosted

“well! i’ve seen a cat without a grin before,” thought alice “but a grin without a cat is the wildest thing i’ve ever seen in my life!”

she hadn’t bounced too far before she peeped the house of the march hare – she figured it had gotta be the right crib cuz the chimneys looked like giant ears and the roof was thatched with fur – it was so massive that she wasn’t gonna get close until she nibbled some more of that left-bit mush and boosted herself to about two feet high – even then she walked up all timid sayin to herself “what if this crib is raving mad after all! lowkey wish i’d hit up the hatter instead!”

ch. vii. a mad tea-party

yo there was this massive table set under a tree right in front of the house and the march hare and the hatter were having tea like total bosses while a dormouse was snoozin between them and the other two were straight-up using it as a cushion, restin their elbows and chattin over its head – “super uncomfortable for the dormouse,” alice thought but since it was asleep she figured it didn’t give a damn

the table was huge but the three of them were all crammed into one corner screaming “no room! no room!” when they spotted alice comin – and alice was like “there’s plenty of room, get rekt” and plopped herself down into a massive arm-chair at the end of the table

“have some wine,” the march hare said in a hype tone

alice scanned the table but all she saw was tea so she was like “dude i don’t see any wine”

“nah, there isn’t any,” replied the march hare

“then offering it wasn’t very civil of you,” alice snapped angrily

“well u weren’t very civil by sittin down without an invite,” countered the march hare

“i didn’t know it was ur table,” said alice “it’s set for a whole squad way more than just three”

“yo your hair needs a cut,” said the hatter – he’d been starin at alice for a minute with mad curiosity and that was his first drop

“u should learn not to throw personal burns, it’s hella rude,” alice fired back

the hatter’s eyes went wide like whoa but all he could spit out was “why is a raven like a writing-desk?” like a total riddle drop

“come on we’re gonna have some fun now!” alice thought, hyped that they were finally droppin riddles – “i think i can guess this one,” she added out loud

“do u mean u think u can crack the answer?” asked the march hare

“exactly so,” alice replied

“then u gotta say what u mean,” urged the march hare

“i do,” alice replied in a rush “at least i mean what i say – that’s basically the same thing, ya know”

“not even close!” snapped the hatter “u might as well say that ‘i see what i eat’ equals ‘i eat what i see’ – lol”

“or u could say ‘i like what i get’ is the same as ‘i get what i like’!” added the march hare

“or even that ‘i breathe when i sleep’ equals ‘i sleep when i breathe’!” mumbled the dormouse in its sleep

“it’s the same thing with you,” said the hatter and then the convo dropped as the party sat in dead silence while alice tried to remember any deep facts about ravens and writing-desks which wasn’t much at all

the hatter broke the silence first “yo what day of the month is it?” he asked turning to alice while fidgetin with his watch like crazy shaking it and holding it to his ear

alice thought a sec then said “the fourth”

“two days wrong!” sighed the hatter “i told u butter wouldn’t suit the works!” he added with an angry glare at the march hare

“it was the best butter though,” the march hare meekly replied

“yeah but some crumbs got in too,” grumbled the hatter “u shouldn’t have mixed it with the bread-knife”

the march hare grabbed the watch and looked gloomily then dipped it into his tea and looked again but could only murmur his first line “it was the best butter, u know”

alice, peeking over his shoulder, was like “what a funny watch! it tells u the day of the month but not what o’clock it is!”

“why should it?” muttered the hatter “does ur watch even tell u what year it is?”

“of course not,” alice shot back readily “but that’s cuz it stays in the same year for like forever”

“which is totally the case with mine,” said the hatter

alice was dreadfully puzzled cuz the hatter’s remark made zero sense but it was kinda english so she said politely “i don’t quite understand u”

“the dormouse is asleep again,” said the hatter as he poured a little hot tea on its snoozin nose

the dormouse shook its head all impatient without even openin its eyes “of course of course; that’s exactly what i was gonna say”

“have u guessed the riddle yet?” the hatter asked turning back to alice

“nah, i give up,” alice sighed “what’s the answer?”

“i haven’t the slightest idea,” said the hatter

“nor have i,” added the march hare

alice sighed big time “i think u guys could do something better with your time than wastin it on pointless riddles”

“if u knew time as well as i do,” said the hatter “u wouldn’t be talkin about wastin it. it’s him.”

“i don’t know what u mean,” alice replied

“of course u don’t!” the hatter snapped tossing his head all contemptuously “i bet u never even chatted with time!”

“maybe not,” alice cautiously replied “but i know i gotta beat time when i learn music”

“ah! that explains it,” said the hatter “he won’t stand bein beaten. now if u kept good terms with him, he’d do almost anything for u with the clock. like, suppose it was nine in the morn – perfect to start lessons – u just gotta whisper a hint to time and boom, the clock spins in a twinklin! half-past one means dinner time!”

(march hare lowkey muttered “i only wish it was” in a whisper)

“that’d be grand for real,” alice mused thoughtfully “but then – i wouldn’t even be hungry for it, ya feel?”

“not right away, maybe,” said the hatter “but u could lock it to half-past one as long as u want”

“is that how u roll?” alice asked

the hatter shook his head all mournful “not i!” he replied “we totally clashed last march – just before he went mad, u know –” (pointing his tea spoon at the march hare) “–it was at the epic concert given by the queen of hearts and i had to sing

‘twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
how i wonder what u’re up to!’

u know that jam, maybe?”

“i’ve heard a vibe like it,” alice replied

“and it goes on, u know, like:
  up above the world u fly,
  like a tea-tray in the sky.
    twinkle, twinkle—”

here the dormouse was straight-up vibin’ in sleep mode, shaking itself like “omg twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle—” on loop so hard that the squad had to pinch it 4k style just to yeet the tune off deadass

“bruh i barely dropped the first verse, no cap,” said the hatter while the queen jumped up like a soggy npc and bawled, “he’s murdering the time! off with his head, fr fr!”

alice was like, “omg, that’s savage asf, big yikes, deadass!”

and ever since that mess, hatter kept on in a mournful glitch tone, “this dude won’t do anythin i ask, it’s always six o’clock now like eternal tea-time mode”

alice got a brainwave mid-meltdown, “so is that why there’s a whole army of tea-things posted here, yeet?”

“yep, that’s it,” sighed hatter, exhaling sigma male grindset energy, “it’s always tea-time and we got zero time to wash the things between whiles, smh”

“so u just keep spinnin’ round, i suppose?” alice asked, throwing shade like a true meme lord

“exactly so,” hatter clapped back, “as the tea-things get used up, deadass!”

alice hit back, “but what happens when u loop back to the start again, like caught in an endless glitch?”

“yo, suppose we change the subject,” interrupted march hare who was yawning like an overworked bot, “i’m straight-up tired of this drama. vote that the young lady drop a story, asap!”

“real talk, i ain’t got any stories rn,” alice admitted in full alarm mode

“then the dormouse gonna spill it!” they both yelled, “wake up, dormouse!” and they pinched it on both sides like a chaotic keysmash

the dormouse slowly blinked awake and croaked in a feeble, hoarse tone, “i wasn’t asleep, i caught every word u fools were spamming, no cap”

“spill a story, fam!” hollered march hare

“yes, please do, drop that tea!” pleaded alice

“and be quick about it or u’ll yeet back to snooze mode before it’s done,” added hatter bossing like a gigachad

“once upon a time there were three lil sisters,” dormouse sped out like a crammed post, “elsie, lacie, and tillie—living at the bottom of a well, deadass—”

“yo what did they snack on down there?” alice, total foodie alert, asked

“they fed on treacle,” dormouse paused like a sigma for a sec, “treacle fuel, i guess”

alice was like, “nah, they couldn’t have done that, they’d be super ill, big yikes”

“so they were—mad ill,” dormouse deadpanned

alice tried to vibe with that crazy living but got totally puzzled and pressed, “but why live deep in a well?”

“grab some more tea, alice,” march hare urged earnestly

“i got nothin yet, so i can’t even guzzle more,” alice snapped in offended drip

“nah, u mean u can’t take less, it’s hella easy to grab more than nada,” hatter retorted like a true meme machine

“nobody asked ur hot takes,” alice shot back

“who’s droppin’ personal kicks now?” hatter trumpeted triumphantly

alice was stuck in total mute mode so she grabbed some tea and bread-and-butter, then turned to dormouse and repeated, “so why the chill at the bottom of the well?”

dormouse took a sec to load his brain cache and then mumbled, “it was a treacle-well, yeet”

“omg that’s bogus, there’s no such thing!” alice began raging, but hatter and march hare went “sh! sh!” in full NPC mode while dormouse sulked, “if u can’t be civil, finish the story urself, fam”

“no, pls go on!” alice said humbly, “i won’t interrupt again, maybe there’s actually one story here”

“one, indeed!” dormouse snapped indignantly then gave in, “so these 3 lil sisters—they were learning to draw, u know, art flex mode—”

“and what art did they drop?” alice, forgetting all promises, asked

“treacle,” dormouse blurted out with zero second thought, pure keysmash style

“i need a clean cup right now,” hatter interrupted, “let’s all yeet to a new spot”

hatty slid off like a total gigachad and dormouse followed, while march hare slid into dormouse’s old seat and alice, kinda reluctantly, got stuck in march hare’s spot. hatter was winning the vibe shift, but alice got rekt since march hare’d just flipped a milk jug onto his plate, total chaos

alice, still trying not to offend dormouse, cautiously probed, “but i don’t get it—where did u draw the treacle from?”

“u can pull water outta a water-well,” hatter crowed, “so logically, u should be able to draw treacle out of a treacle-well—eh, stupid, or what?”

“but they were stuck in the well,” alice whispered to dormouse, totally ignoring that savage jab

“of course they were,” dormouse deadass replied, “well in, ya feel?”

this had alice so shook/confused that she let dormouse keep spitting his tale

“they were learning to draw,” dormouse went on, yawning hard and rubbing its tired eyes, “and they doodled all kinds of stuff—anything that starts with an m—”

“why only m though?” alice queried

“why not, lol,” said march hare like it was chill

alice then went silent

dormouse, fully zoned out and snoozing, got pinched by hatter and let out a little shriek, then continued, “—things beginning with m, like mouse-traps, the moon, memory, and mad muchness—you know, when u say stuff is ‘much of a muchness’—ever seen a drawing of a muchness, or nah?”

“really, now u ask me,” alice stuttered all confused, “i don’t think—”

“then u shouldn’t talk,” hatter snapped

that brutal clap of shade was too extra for alice; she yeeted herself off in disgust and walked away while dormouse crashed back to sleep, and none of the others even paused—she peeped back once or twice, lowkey hoping they'd call her, but last she caught them trying to shove dormouse into the teapot, lol

“i’ll never go there again, deadass!” alice hollered while tripping through the woods, “that’s the dumbest tea-party ever in my entire life, no cap!”

just then she peeped a tree with a door right in it and was like, “that’s mad curious, fr fr! but everything’s sus today so imma yeet right in,” and in she went

once more, she popped up in a long hallway near a tiny glass table, thinking, “this time i got it, i've totally leveled up,” as she grabbed the little golden key and unlocked the door to the garden. then she munched on a mush piece (stashed in her pocket, obvi) till she was about a foot high, then cruised down a skinny passage, and at last landed in a bomb garden among bright flower-beds and cool fountains

chapter viii. the queen’s croquet-ground

yo check it: a massive rose tree was chillin’ by the garden entrance with white roses, but three gardeners were busy spraying red paint on them like wild art. alice thought it was super sus and edged closer to spy on them, when one of ‘em hollered, “look out now, five! don’t go splashing paint over me like that!”

“couldn’t help it,” five grumbled in a sulky tone, “seven straight-up jogged my elbow”

seven peeped up, snapping, “that’s right, five! always throwin’ blame on others, like for reals!”

“you’d better zip it!” five snapped back, “i heard the queen just dropped that u deserved beheading yesterday, no cap!”

“what for tho?” asked the original chatter

“none of ur biz, two!” seven shot, like total savage

“nah, it is his biz!” five retorted, “and imma tell him—it’s cuz u brought tulip-roots for the cook instead of onions, lmao!”

seven yeeted his brush down and started, “well, of all the unjust things—” when suddenly his eyes caught alice watching and he froze, while the others peeped around and all bowed low in respect

“could u spill the tea, like, why u painting those roses?” alice timidly asked

five and seven went mute and stared at two, who then mumbled in a low tone, “look, miss, this should’ve been a red rose-tree but we goofed and put a white one in by mistake; and if the queen cops it, our heads are done, for real. so we’re bustin’ our moves before she shows up—” then outta nowhere five, anxiously scanning the garden, yelled “the queen! the queen!” and the three gardeners yeeted themselves flat on their faces, full-on cringe mode

footsteps came in a wild stampede and alice spun around, hyped to see the queen

first rolled in ten soldiers carrying clubs, all shaped like the three gardeners—oblong and flat with hands and feet at the corners; then ten courtiers dripping in diamonds, strolling in pairs like synced avatars; next came ten royal kiddos, leaping hand-in-hand in cute couples, all decked out with hearts

after that, the guests showed up—mostly kings and queens—and alice spotted the white rabbit, all nervous and chattering, smiling like a jittery emoji, then zipping past without a glance. next came the knave of hearts, clutching the king’s crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and lastly, the grand entrance of the king and queen of hearts

alice was lowkey debating whether to drop face-down like the gardeners but couldn’t recall any rule sayin’ that in a procession—plus, like, what’s the point if everyone’s facedown and can’t vibe on it? so she just chilled where she was and waited

when the procession rolled up opposite alice, they all stopped and glared; then the queen snapped, “who is this?” throwin’ it at the knave of hearts, who just bowed and smiled like a total simp

“idiot!” queen screamed, tossing her head all impatient, then turning to alice, “what’s your name, child?”

“my name is alice, so please, your majesty,” alice replied all polite-like, but inside she was like, “bro, they’re just a pack of cards, i ain’t scared one bit!”

“and who are these?” queen demanded, pointing at the three gardeners sprawled around the rose tree—since they were all face-down and their backside pattern was identical to the rest, she couldn’t tell if they were gardeners, soldiers, courtiers, or even her own kids, lol

“how should i know?” alice shot back, surprised at her own boldness, “it’s none of my biz, deadass.”

queen went full red rage, glaring like a wild beast, and then screamed, “off with her head! off—”

“nonsense!” alice roared back loud and clear, and queen went silent, taken aback

the king, all awkward, laid a hand on her arm and whispered timidly, “consider, my dear: she’s only a child!”

queen spun away angrily from him and barked at the knave, “turn them over!”

the knave, careful as ever, flipped them over with one foot, lol

“get up!” queen shrieked in a high-pitched voice, and instantly the three gardeners sprang to their feet, bowing madly to the king, queen, royal kiddos, and everyone else in the mix

“cut that out!” queen screamed, “u’re making me giddy,” then, turning to the rose tree, she snapped, “what have u been up to here?”

“may it please your majesty,” said two, going down on one knee with humble drip, “we were tryin’—”

“i see!” queen declared while inspecting the roses, “off with their heads!” and the procession rolled on, leaving three soldiers behind to execute the poor gardeners, who then scrambled to alice for protection

“u shan’t get beheaded!” yelled alice as she yeeted them into a massive flower-pot chillin’ nearby, lmao

the three soldiers wandered about for a hot minute, scouting for them, then quietly marched off to join the rest

“are their heads off now?” queen ROARED

“their heads are gone, if it pleases your majesty!” the soldiers bellowed back

“that’s right!” queen hollered, “can u play croquet?”

the soldiers went silent and stared at alice like, “yo, that one’s for u!”

“yes!” alice shouted, all hyped

“come on, then!” queen roared as alice joined the procession, lowkey wondering what epic chaos was next

“it’s—it’s a very fine day!” piped up a timid voice right by her side; it was the white rabbit, peeking anxiously into her face

“very,” alice replied, then adding, “—so where’s the duchess?”

“hush! hush!” rabbit muttered in a rushed, low tone, glancing anxiously over his shoulder before tiptoeing up, leaning close to her ear and whispering, “she’s under sentence of execution, deadass”

“what for?” alice fired back

“did u just say ‘what a pity!?’” rabbit pressed

“nah, i didn’t, i only said ‘what for?’” alice clarified, all decisive

“she boxed the queen’s ears—” rabbit began, and alice let out a lil scream of laughter; then rabbit, in frightened whisper mode, said, “oh, hush! the queen will hear u! she came late and then queen said—”

“get to your places!” queen thundered, and suddenly ppl were running in every direction, tumbling into each other; eventually they settled down in a hot minute or two, and the game kicked off

alice thought she’d never seen a croquet-ground so mad sus in her life—it was all ridges and furrows, with balls that were live hedgehogs, mallets that were live flamingoes, and soldiers doubling up doing handstand flips to form arches, pure chaos mode

her biggest struggle was wrangling her flamingo: she managed to tuck its body snug under her arm with its legs hanging, but every time she straightened its neck to smack the hedgehog, it twisted around and glared at her with a puzzled face that made her burst out laughing, and just when she got it down and prepped to go again, the hedgehog unrolled and started crawling away—plus every route was blocked by a ridge or furrow, and the doubled-up soldiers kept bouncing off to other parts of the field, so alice realized this game was next-level difficult, no cap

all the players went wild, playing simultaneously without waiting for turns, beelining into constant beef and fighting over hedgehogs; in no time queen exploded into a furious meltdown, stamping around and hollering “off with his head!” or “off with her head!” roughly every minute

alice got hella uneasy—she hadn’t even clashed with queen yet, but knew it could all go down any minute, and thought, “and then, what about me? they’re crazy fond of chopping off heads here—like, how the heck is anyone left alive, smh?”

she scanned for an escape route, wondering if she could dip out unseen, when a wild, curious vibe appeared in the air—at first it totally baffled her, but after a minute she pegged it as a grin and was like, “oh snap, it’s the cheshire cat—now i got someone to chat with, for real!”

“how u doing?” the cat piped up as soon as its mouth kicked in, all casual

alice waited for the eyes to pop up and then nodded, thinking, “no point chatting till it flexes some ears, even just one pair.”

another minute later the full head appeared, so alice dropped her flamingo and started spilling the tea about the game, super glad she had someone to listen; the cat seemed chill and didn’t reveal any more of itself

“i don’t think they play fair at all,” alice began in a complaining tone, “everyone’s beefing so hard you can’t even hear yourself think—and there ain’t any proper rules; or if there are, nobody gives a flying pixel—plus all this alive stuff is mad confusing; like, there’s an arch i gotta cruise through at the far end of the field—and i was totally gonna croquet the queen’s hedgehog just now, but it ghosted when it saw mine coming, lmao!”

“so how u rate the queen?” asked the cat in a low, chill tone

“not at all,” alice snapped, “she’s so extra—” and just then she peeped queen lurking right behind her, so she continued, “—likely to win, so why bother finishing the game?”

queen smirked and bounced on

“who are u chattin with?” king asked as he rolled up to alice, eyeballing the cat’s head with major curiosity

“it’s my bud—a cheshire cat,” alice replied, “lemme introduce it, fam”

“i don’t like its vibe at all,” king grumbled, “but if it wants, it can kiss my hand,” he added, sliding behind alice

“nah, i'd rather not,” cat deadass replied

“don’t get impertinent, and stop staring at me like that!” king snapped

“a cat can look at a king, i read that somewhere, though can’t remember where,” alice coolly answered

“well, it must be removed,” king decreed, then hollered at queen passin by, “my dear! i wish u’d get this cat yeeted out!”

queen only had one solution for any drama, no matter how small: “off with his head!” she ordered, not even glancing around

“i’ll fetch the executioner myself,” king declared eagerly and zoomed off

alice figured she might as well double back to peep the game, since she heard queen’s distant, passion-fueled screaming. she’d already caught wind of three players getting sentenced to execution for missing their turns and the whole scene looked hella sus, with the game so chaotic she couldn’t tell if it was even her turn. so she went on a mission to track down her hedgehog

the hedgehog was in a wild scrap with another hedgehog, which alice scoped as prime croquet fodder; the only glitch was that her flamingo had yeeted over to the other side of the garden, where she could see it struggling, all helpless-like, trying to fly into a tree

by the time alice snagged her flamingo and hauled it back, the brawl was over and both hedgehogs had ghosted, but alice was like, “idgaf, cuz all the arches are gone from this side of the field,” so she tucked her flamingo safely under her arm so it wouldn’t escape again and bounced back for more convo with her friend

when she got back to the cheshire cat, she was shook to see a huge crowd gathered around it—a total meltdown between the executioner, king, and queen spitting off arguments all at once while everyone else sat silent, looking hella uncomfortable

the moment alice appeared, the trio all hollered at her to settle their beef, repeating their mixed-up rants so fast she could barely decode a single word over the collective chaos

the executioner argued, “u can’t decapitate a head if there’s no body to chop from—i’ve never had to do this nasty biz before and ain’t about to start now,” all nervous energy

king countered, “anything with a head is fair game for beheading, and stop talkin’ nonsense,” like pure authoritarian drip

queen then roared, “if nothing gets fixed in like no time, imma execute everyone all round!” and that last savage line had the whole crew looking all grave and anxious

alice, totally blanked, could only mutter, “it belongs to the duchess; u better bug her about it,” deadass

“she’s in prison,” queen snapped at the executioner, “fetch her here!” and the executioner yeeted off like a turbo arrow, no cap!

the cat's head was straight-up ghostin the minute he yeeted out, deadass, and by the time he rolled back with the duchess it had totally vanished, like, 100% gone; so the king and the executioner were runnin’ around like npcs caught in 4k, totally glitchin, while the rest of the squad bounced back to the game, no cap!!!

chapter ix.  
the mock turtle’s story

“yo, deadass, can’t even describe how stoked i am to see you again, you classic old thing!” spat the duchess while snugly tucking her arm into alice’s, and they dipped off together like a pair of gigachads on a tea run

alice was hella glad to peep that the duchess was vibe-checkin’ in a chill mood, and lowkey thought maybe it was just that spicy pepper that had her goin’ savage back in the kitchen, deadass

“when i’m a duchess,” she whispered to herself (not in a hype tone, obvs), “i’m ditchin’ all that pepper in my kitchen – soup slaps just fine without it—maybe pepper’s the glitch that gets folks all hot and bothered, and vinegar turns 'em sour, and camomile leaves a bitter aftertaste, and barley-sugar and all that sweet drip makes kiddos chill; i wish ppl were woke to that so they wouldn’t be so extra stingy, fr fr”

she lowkey forgot about the duchess until she caught that sus voice right by her ear, and got hella shook; “yo, you’re deep in thought, my dear, and that’s makin’ u forget to drop some words. i can’t spill the moral tea just now but imma remember it in a hot sec,” came the whisper drip

“maybe there’s no moral at all,” alice ventured, chill but curious

“tut, tut, child!” snapped the duchess, “everything’s got a moral if u can just peep its vibe,” as she squished closer to alice like a squat filter on a cringe pic

alice wasn’t feelin’ that super close vibe – first off, cos the duchess was ugly af, and second, ‘cause her chin was, like, perfectly sized to smack alice’s shoulder with sharp, uncomfortable energy – but alice kept it cool and bore it, cuz rude is so last season

“the game’s on fleek now,” she tossed out, trying to keep convo lit

“facts,” cooed the duchess, “and the moral is – ‘oh, it’s love, it’s love, that makes this crazy world spin, no cap!’”

“yo, someone said that it’s all about everyone minding their own biz!” whispered alice on the low

“ah, well, that’s pretty much the same tea,” replied the duchess while jamming her sharp chin into alice’s shoulder, “and the moral is – ‘handle your inner sense and the sounds will handle themselves,’” deadass

alice thought, “damn, she’s extra on snaggin’ morals from everything, like, peak cringe”

“i dare say u wonder why i’m not draping my arm around your waist,” the duchess quipped after a beat, “cuz i’m lowkey doubtful about your flamingo’s temper – shall we experiment, or nah?”

“yo, he might bite, and i’m not tryna risk it,” alice replied all cautious, not down for that experiment drama

“facts,” said the duchess, “flamingoes and mustard both bite, and the moral is – ‘birds of a feather flock together,’” full meme mode

“but yo, mustard ain’t even a bird,” alice clapped, spitting out truth

“right as usual, u got a clear way of droppin’ truths!” replied the duchess with savage energy

“it’s a mineral, i think,” alice mused, uncertain and chill

“of course it is,” agreed the duchess, all ready to vibe with every word alice dropped; “we got a massive mustard-mine around here, and the moral is – ‘the more there is of mine, the less there is of yours,’” real talk

“oh, i gotchu!” exclaimed alice, who hadn’t even clocked that last line, “it’s a veg, even if it doesn’t scream veg—deadass!”

“bet, i’m with u,” said the duchess, “and the moral is – ‘be what you wanna be’ or to put it super simple – ‘never imagine you aren’t exactly what it appears u are,’” and that word salad hit hard

“i’d totally understand it better if it was written, but i can’t decode that mess as u say it,” alice admitted politely

“that’s nothing compared to what i could spit if i felt like it,” the duchess flexed, all pleased with herself

“don’t even bother, just keep it short,” alice shot back, tryna dodge extra chatter

“oh, please, don’t even mention trouble! i’m gifting you every drip of my words so far,” the duchess declared, all meme and generous

alice thought, “this is such a lame AF present – thank goodness birthdays aren’t like that,” but kept it all inside, no cap

“deep in thought again?” the duchess prodded with another sharp chin dig

“bet, i got every right to think, ok?” alice snapped, a bit nervous but still in control

“as much right as pigs gotta fly, and the m—” the duchess began, but then mid-word her voice straight-up crashed and her arm shivered like a busted wifi connection; alice peeped up and saw the queen looming, arms folded and frowning like a storm in full effect

“a fine day, your majesty,” mumbled the duchess in a weak, low meme voice

“listen up, i give u fair warning!” boomed the queen as she stamped hard, “either you or that head of yours gets yeeted, like, in no time – choose fast, skrrt!”

the duchess took her pick and dipped out in a sec, ghostin’ like crazy

“let’s keep the game rollin’,” the queen ordered alice, and alice, hella terrified, trailed behind in mute, heart pounding as they hit the croquet-ground

the other guests had been chillin’ in the shade since queen dipped, but the moment she reappeared, they scrambled back to the game like their lives depended on it – delay equals instant death vibes, no cap

all the while, queen never stopped clashing with the players, hollerin’ “off with his head!” or “off with her head!” at every turn, and whoever got hit by her orders got cuffed by soldiers who were, like, forced to drop everything and do it, so by about half an hour, all the players except the king, queen, and alice were in custody, execution pending

then queen, totally outta breath, leaned to alice and asked, “hey, have you peeped the mock turtle yet?”

“nah,” replied alice, “i don’t even know what a mock turtle even is”

“it’s what mock turtle soup’s made from,” queen deadpanned

“i’ve never seen or heard of one,” alice admitted

“come on then, and get its story,” queen ordered, yeeting off to sort more executions

as they rolled off together, alice heard the king murmur to the crew, “you are all pardoned,” and she felt a burst of relief ‘cause she was lowkey bummed by queen’s lethal playlist

soon enough they bumped into a gryphon, chillin’ hard in the sun (if u don’t know what a gryphon is, go look it up, lol) – queen snapped, “up, lazy thing! take this girl to get the mock turtle’s history – i gotta bounce for more execs,” and then she dipped, leaving alice alone with the gryphon; alice wasn’t totally vibin’ with its look, but figured sticking with it was safer than chasing that savage queen, so she waited

the gryphon sat up, rubbed its eyes like it was sleepin’ off a long stream, and peeped queen until she ghosted; then it chuckled, half to itself, half to alice, “what fun, bro!”

“what’s the fun, though?” asked alice, all curious

“cuz it’s all queen’s extra fancy vibe – she never really execs anybody, ya know. come on!” the gryphon explained with a cheeky bounce

“everybody’s droppin’ ‘come on!’ around here,” alice thought, trailing slowly behind, “i’ve never been bossed around this hard in my entire life, like, seriously!”

they hadn’t gone far when they spotted the mock turtle in the distance, sittin’ all sad and lonely on a tiny rock ledge, its sighs heavy like its heart was about to break; alice felt a tidal wave of pity. “what’s your sorrow, dude?” she asked the gryphon, and the gryphon almost repeated its old line, “it’s all his extra fancy vibe – he ain’t got no real sorrow, come on!”

so they rolled up to the mock turtle, whose huge tearful eyes screamed sadness but it stayed mute, a total quiet mime

“this young lady wants your history drop, no cap,” the gryphon declared

“i’ll tell it to her,” said the mock turtle in a deep hollow tone, “sit down, both of you, and zip it until i’m done,” he ordered

they sat down, and for a few long minutes not a word came out; alice thought, “how is he ever gonna finish if he never even starts?” but she waited, patient as a meme buffering

“once,” at last the mock turtle sighed deep, “i was a real turtle,”

then came a mega long silence, broken only by random “hjckrrh!” exclamations from the gryphon and the mock turtle’s constant heavy sobbing; alice almost jumped up to say, “thanks, sir, for the interesting story,” but her brain was hyped that there was more tea to spill, so she sat quiet

“back when we were littlies,” the mock turtle continued, calmer now but still sobbing sometimes, “we went to school in the sea. our master was an old turtle—we used to call him tortoise,”

“yo, why call him tortoise if he ain’t one?” alice asked

“'cause he taught us, duh!” snapped the mock turtle, all angry – “seriously, you’re mad dull!”

“you should be ashamed for askin’ something so basic,” added the gryphon, and then both clammed up and glared at poor alice, who felt like she was ready to vanish into the earth

finally the gryphon said, “move it, old timer! don’t be draggin’ all day!” and then he kept on with these words:

“yeah, we went to school in the sea, even if u don’t buy it—”

“i never said i didn’t!” interrupted alice

“you did,” snapped the mock turtle

“hold that tongue!” yelled the gryphon before alice could even speak; then the mock turtle went on,

“we had the dopest education—like, we hit school every day—”

“i been to day-school too, so no need to flex that hard,” said alice

“with extras?” asked the mock turtle, a bit anxious

“yes, we learned french and music,” alice replied

“and washing?” the mock turtle prodded

“certainly not!” alice snapped indignantly

“ah! then your school wasn’t lit at all,” sighed the mock turtle with huge relief. “ours had a bonus line at the end: ‘french, music, and washing—extra.’”

“you couldn’t have wanted that extra much, livin’ at the bottom of the sea,” alice added

“i couldn’t afford the extra,” sighed the mock turtle, “i only took the regular course”

“so what was that, then?” alice inquired

“reelin’ and writhin’, obvs, as the starter pack,” the mock turtle replied, “and then came arithmetic branches – ambition, distraction, uglification, and derision, no cap”

“never heard of ‘uglification’,” alice ventured, “what even is that?”

the gryphon raised both its paws in shock, “what! never heard of uglifying?! u do know beautify means to glow up, right?”

“yeah,” alice said dubiously, “it means to make stuff prettier”

“well then, if u don’t know what uglify is, u’re just a simpleton,” the gryphon snapped straight up

not feelin’ it to ask more, alice turned to the mock turtle, “what else did u learn? spill the tea”

“oh, there was mystery,” the mock turtle replied, counting on his flappers, “mystery – ancient and modern, mixed with seaography; then drawling – our drawling-master was an old conger-eel who popped in once a week to teach us drawling, stretching, and fainting in coils”

“what was that drawling like?” alice asked

“i can’t show it, i’m too stiff, and gryphon never got it anyway,” said the mock turtle

“nah, i didn’t have time either; i rolled with the classics master – an old crab, legit,” added the gryphon

“i never went to him,” sighed the mock turtle, “he was all about teaching laughing and grief, or so they said”

“so he did, so he did,” the gryphon murmured, sighing as both hid their faces in their paws

“and how many hours a day did u grind these lessons?” alice blurted, eager to switch the vibe

“ten hours on day one, nine on day two, and it kept droppin’ like that,” the mock turtle replied

“what a wild plan!” exclaimed alice

“that’s why they call ‘em lessons – cuz they literally lessen day by day,” remarked the gryphon

alice mulled it over for a bit and then asked, “so then the eleventh day was like a holiday?”

“of course it was,” said the mock turtle

“and how’d u manage on the twelfth?” alice pressed eagerly

“that’s enough about lessons, now drop some deets on the games,” interrupted the gryphon firmly

chapter x.  
the lobster quadrille

mock turtle sighed deep, pulled a flapper over his eyes, and peered at alice tryin’ to talk—but his sobs were choke mode, like a bone stuck in his throat, as gryphon shook him and landed a punch on his back. eventually, mock turtle regained his voice, tears streamin’ down as he went on:

“yo, maybe u haven’t been livin’ much under the sea—” (alice mumbled “i haven’t”) “and maybe u’ve never even met a lobster—” (alice almost dropped “i once tasted—” then quickly clammed “no, never”) “—so u got no clue how dope a lobster quadrille is!”

“no, for real,” said alice, “what kind of dance is this?”

“why,” said the gryphon, “u first squad up in a line along the sea-shore—”

“nah, two lines, bro!” hollered mock turtle, “like seals, turtles, salmon, and the whole crew; then, once u clear out all the jiggly jellyfish—”

“yeah, that usually takes a hot minute,” interrupted the gryphon

“—then u advance twice—”

“each round, partner up with a lobster, deadass!” yelled the gryphon

“of course,” said mock turtle, “advance twice, lock in with your partner—”

“—swap lobsters, and bounce back in the same order,” continued the gryphon

“then, you know,” went mock turtle, “u toss the—”

“the lobsters!” shouted the gryphon, bouncing up into the air

“—as far out to sea as possible—”

“and then go swim after them!” screamed the gryphon

“do a somersault in the sea!” cried mock turtle, capering wild and free

“swap lobsters again!” yelled the gryphon at the top of his volume

“then head back to land, and that’s the first figure, done,” said mock turtle, suddenly lowering his voice; and the two, who’d been jumpin’ like total memes, sat down sadly and quietly, starin’ at alice

“this dance must be pretty fire,” whispered alice timidly

“wanna peep a snippet?” asked mock turtle

“hella yes,” replied alice

“come on, let’s try the first figure!” urged mock turtle to gryphon, “we can ditch the lobsters, so which one’s gonna sing?”

“oh, you sing,” said the gryphon, “i forgot the words, straight-up brain outage”

so they started solemnly dancin’ round alice, circlin’ her as they occasionally stepped on her toes when they got too close, and wavin’ their forepaws to keep the beat, while mock turtle crooned slowly and sadly:

“will you walk a little faster?” said a whiting to a snail  
“there’s a porpoise close behind us, and he’s treading on my tail  
see how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!  
they’re waiting on the shingle—will you come and join the dance?  
will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, will you join the dance?  
will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, won’t you join the dance?  

you seriously got no notion how lit it’ll be  
when they scoop us up and yeet us, with the lobsters, out to sea!”  
but the snail clapped back “too far, too far!” with a major side-eye—  
said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he wouldn’t join the dance.  
would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join the dance.  
would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join the dance.  

“what even matters how far we roll?” his scaly friend replied  
“there’s another shore, u know, on the other side.  
the further from england, the closer it gets to france—  
then don’t get all ghostly, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.  
will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, will you join the dance?  
will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, won’t you join the dance?”

“thank you, it’s super interesting to watch,” said alice, mad relieved it was over at last, “and i seriously dig that quirky whiting song!”

“oh, about the whiting,” chimed mock turtle, “you’ve seen them, right?”

“yes,” replied alice, “i’ve peeped them loads at dinner—” then she quickly retracted

“i dunno where dinn is these days,” said mock turtle, “but if u’ve seen them often, obviously u know what they’re like.”

“i believe so,” alice mused, “they literally got their tails in their mouths—and they’re all over crumbs.”

“nah, u’re wrong about the crumbs,” said mock turtle, “crumbs all wash off in the sea. but they got their tails stuck in their mouths; and the reason is—” then he yawned and shut his eyes—“tell her the reason, gryphon.”

“the reason is,” said the gryphon, “that they rolled with the lobsters to the dance. so they got yeeted out to sea, had to fall a long-ass way, and their tails got jammed in their mouths so they couldn’t ever unstick them. that’s it.”

“thank you,” said alice, “it’s super interesting. i never knew so much about a whiting before.”

“i can spill more tea if u like,” said the gryphon, “do u know why it’s called a whiting?”

“lol, never even thought about it, why?” asked alice

“it does the boots and shoes,” replied the gryphon in a solemn tone

alice was totally puzzled, “does the boots and shoes?!” she echoed

“yo, what happened to your kicks?” asked the gryphon, “i mean, what makes them so shiny?”

alice glanced down, thought a sec, then said, “they’re done with blacking, i believe.”

“boots and shoes under the sea,” continued the gryphon in a deep voice, “are done with a whiting. now u know.”

“and what are they made of?” alice asked, full-on curious

“soles and eels, of course,” snapped the gryphon impatiently, “any shrimp could’ve dropped that tea.”

“if i’d been the whiting,” said alice, still vibin’ on the song, “i’d tell the porpoise, ‘keep back, please: we don’t want you with us!’”

“they were forced to have him with them,” said mock turtle, “no wise fish would ever roll without a porpoise.”

“wouldn’t it really?” said alice, all surprised

“of course not,” said mock turtle, “why, if a fish came up and said he was headin’ out on a journey, i’d be like, ‘with what porpoise?’”

“don’t you mean ‘purpose’?” alice interjected

“i mean exactly what i said,” replied mock turtle, offended, and gryphon added, “come on, let’s hear some of your adventures.”

“i could drop my adventures—starting from this morning,” said alice timidly, “but there’s no use goin’ back to yesterday cuz i was a totally different person then.”

“explain all that,” said mock turtle

“nah, nah! the adventures first,” snapped the gryphon impatiently, “explanations take forever.”



yo, it’s all about as curious as it can be, deadass, said the gryphon, like, no cap and straight up sus af, omg  
omg, it all came different, said the mock turtle, all deep vibes and lowkey extra, “i need her to drop the remix so, spill the tea and repeat something now—tell her to begin,” and he peeped the gryphon like it had some boss authority over alice, yeet fr

“stand up and repeat ‘tis the voice of the sluggard,” said the gryphon, like, “bet, get up and spit that drip, fam!”

omg, how these creatures boss you around and make you hit replay on all these lessons, thought alice, like, might as well be stuck in school rn, so she yeeted up and started the remix but her brain was full of that lobster quadrille glitch so the words came out all weird and glitchy, for real:—

“’tis da voice of da lobster; i heard him drop it:
‘you baked me too brown, gotta sugar my hair, yo,’
like a duck blinkin’ its lids, so he flexes with his nose,
snips his belt, pops his buttons, then yeets out his toes, omg skibidi!

[later dl editions spun as follows:
when the sands are dry af, he’s gay as a lark on max,
spittin’ shade ‘bout the shark in mad contempt,
but when the tide’s risin’ and sharks roll up, his voice be all timid and shook, wowzers]

that’s a total remix from my child days, said the gryphon, like, old memez never fade, deadass

yo, never peeped that before, said the mock turtle, all chill yet confused, “but it’s a whole glitch of uncommon nonsense,”

alice sat quiet, face-in-hands, thinking, will normal vibes ever happen again? such a vibe, smh

“i def need the deets,” said the mock turtle, “explain it all, pls”

nah, she can’t break it down, said the gryphon, all hurried, “drop the next verse, fam”

“but what about his toes tho?” pressed the mock turtle, like, “how the heck does he flip ‘em with his nose, no cap?”

it’s like the opening move in a dance-off, alice said, but was totally shook and lost, craving a new convo, omg i’m done with this

“dope, keep it comin’,” repeated the gryphon, impatiently, “it kicks off with ‘i passed by his garden’—”

alice, too scared to disobey even though she felt it’d all go sus, pressed on in a trembling voice:—

“i passed by his garden, and peeped with one eye,
how the owl and the panther were straight-up sharing a pie, legit savage!”

[later extended remix:
the panther snatched the pie-crust, gravy, and meat,
while the owl held the dish like its personal treat;
when that pie was totally finished, the owl got a bonus perk,
allowed to pocket the spoon like a gigachad;
meanwhile the panther got served knife and fork with a rough growl,
wrapping up the banquet like it was the last drop—]

“bro, why repeat all that noise,” the mock turtle cut in, “if you ain’t droppin’ the explanation as you go? this is the most jumbled trash ever, deadass!”

“yo, you’d better yeet that remix,” said the gryphon, and alice was hella stoked to let it go

“shall we spin another figure of the lobster quadrille?” the gryphon threw out, “or you want mock turtle to drop a bop?”

“oh, a bop, please, if mock turtle can vibe it,” replied alice all hyped, so much that the gryphon snapped in an offended tone, “hm! no accounting for tastes, i’m not tryna judge! sing us that ‘turtle soup,’ oldie!”

the mock turtle sighed mad deep, and in a voice choked with sobs (total glitch mode) began to drop this track:—

“beautiful soup, all rich n green af,
waitin’ in a hot tureen, no cap!
who tf wouldn’t stoop for these dainty vibes?
soup of the evenin’, beautiful soup!
soup of the evenin’, beautiful soup!
    beau—ksksk—ootiful soo—oop!
    beau—ksksk—ootiful soo—oop!
soo—oop from the e—evenin’,
    beautiful, beautiful soup!

“beautiful soup! who cares bout fish,
game, or any other basic dish?
who wouldn’t flip for two p,
ennyworth for that bomb beautiful soup?
two p for that bomb beautiful soup?
    beau—ksksk—ootiful soo—oop!
    beau—ksksk—ootiful soo—oop!
soo—oop vibin’ in the evenin’,
    beautiful, beauti—ful soup!”

“yo, chorus on loop!” screamed the gryphon as the mock turtle barely started to echo it when from way off came a shout: “the trial’s beginning!” caught in 4k, no cap

“come on!” yelled the gryphon, grabbing alice’s hand and yeeting off without caring ‘bout the song’s finale

“wtf trial tho?” panted alice as she ran; but the gryphon just kept yelling “come on!” and sprinted faster, while in the breeze came these sad, melancholy vibes:—

“soo—oop from the e—evenin’,
    beautiful, beautiful soup!”

chapter xi.  
who stole the tarts?

so check it, the king and queen of hearts were posted on their throne like major flexers when they rolled up, surrounded by a massive mob of birds, beasts, and the full card pack, yo: the knave was chained-up front and center with soldiers flankin’ him, and chillin’ near the king was the white rabbit, rockin’ a trumpet in one hand and a scroll in the other, all hype. dead center in the court sat a table loaded with a giant dish of tarts that looked so bomb it got alice’s hunger on max—she was like, “i wish they’d wrap up this trial and dish out the refreshments!” but that wasn’t happenin’, so she started peepin’ everything around her just to pass the time, lol

alice had never stepped into a court sesh before, but after reading all the books, she was stoked that she recognized nearly every piece of the setup. “that’s the judge,” she whispered to herself, “cuz his wig is straight-up epic, no cap.”

btw, the judge was the king; and since he rocked his crown over that massive wig (if u wanna peep the frontispiece, go ahead), he looked super awkward like totally not comfy or on point

and then alice peeped, “that’s the jury-box, and those twelve creatures” – she had to say “creatures” since some were animals and some were birds, rofl—“i guess they’re the jurors.” she repeated that word like two or three times, lowkey flexin’ her vocab, ‘cause hardly any kids her age could even spell it out. honestly, “jury-men” would’ve done just as well, fr

all twelve jurors were busy scribbling on their slates. “what are you doing?” alice whispered to the gryphon, “they can’t be droppin’ anything yet, before the trial even kicks off.”

“nah, they’re just droppin’ their names,” the gryphon whispered back, “so they don’t forget ‘em before the end, deadass.”

alice started hollerin’ “stupid things!” in full indignation but then slammed the brakes when the white rabbit shouted, “silence in the court!” and then the king popped his specs on, scanning desperately to see who was dissin’ the vibes

alice peeped over the shoulders and saw all the jurors scribbling “stupid things!” on their slates, and even caught one who couldn’t spell “stupid” without asking his neighbour, like, “bruh, their slates are gonna be a hot mess before the trial’s over,” she thought

real talk, one juror’s pencil was squeakin’ non-stop, and alice was like, “oh hell no,” so she snuck around behind him and yeeted it away so swift that the poor lil juror (bill the lizard, lmao) had no clue where it vanished—forced to scribble with one finger all day, and that scribble barely left a mark, lol

“yo, herald, drop the accusation!” barked the king

so the white rabbit blasted three trumpet bops, unrolled a gnarly parchment scroll, and read out:—

“queen of hearts, whipped up some tarts,
    on a summer day, no cap:
knave of hearts, yeeted those tarts,
    snatched ‘em clean away, deadass!”

“drop your verdict,” the king decreed to the jury

“nah, hold up, hold up!” the rabbit interrupted in mad hurry, “there’s a whole lot more comin’ before that happens!”

“summon the first witness,” ordered the king; and the white rabbit blew three more blasts on the trumpet, hollering, “first witness!”

first up on the stand was the hatter. dude strolled in with a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other. “i beg pardon, your majesty,” he began nervously, “for bringin’ these in: but i hadn’t even finished my tea when i got called, no cap.”

“u should’ve finished your tea,” shot back the king. “when did u even start?”

the hatter glanced over at the march hare, who had rolled in with him, arm-in-arm with the dormouse, and mumbled, “fourteenth of march, i think,”

“nah, it’s the fifteenth,” countered the march hare

“bro, actually sixteenth,” added the dormouse, barely awake

“jot that down,” the king commanded the jury, and they eagerly scribbled all three dates on their slates, then crunched 'em into shillings and pence like true sigma math, lol

“peel off that hat,” the king ordered the hatter

“nah, it isn’t even mine,” the hatter replied, lowkey

“stolen!” the king exclaimed, turning to the jury who instantly memo’d the deets

“i keep ‘em to flip,” the hatter added, “i got none of my own. i’m just a hatter, deadass.”

meanwhile the queen popped her specs on and started glaring at the hatter, who went all pale and jittery, like, total nervous mode

“drop your evidence,” the king barked, “and don’t get all nervous, or i’ll have you executed on the spot, fr!”

that did nothing but make the witness more jittery; he kept bouncin’ from one foot to the other, starin’ nervously at the queen, and in his chaos, he bit a huge chunk out of his teacup instead of the bread-and-butter, oof

and right then, alice got hit with a crazy sensation—her body was starting to grow larger again—and at first she was like, “i gotta bounce from this court,” but then decided to chill as long as there was room for her, vibe check

“yo, stop squishin’ me,” mumbled the dormouse, sittin’ right next to her, “i can barely breathe here, deadass”

“i can’t help it,” alice murmured meekly, “i’m growing, no cap”

“you ain’t allowed to flex like that here,” snapped the dormouse

“don’t talk non-sense,” alice shot back boldly, “you know you’re growin’ too, bruh”

“yeah, but i’m on that chill growth pace,” said the dormouse, “not in your extra ridiculous style, smh,” and he sulked off to the other side of the court

throughout all this, the queen kept starin’ at the hatter, and just as the dormouse crossed over, she snapped at one of the officers, “yo, bring me the list of the singers from the last concert!” making the hatter tremble so hard he legit shook his shoes right off, lol

“drop your evidence,” repeated the king, all angry, “or imma execute you whether you’re nervous or not, straight up!”

“i’m a poor man, your majesty,” the hatter stuttered, voice trembling, “—and i hadn’t even started my tea properly—not reallll, and with my bread-and-butter gettin’ so thin—and the twinklin’ of the tea—”

“twinklin’ of the what now?” snapped the king

“it all kicked off with the tea,” the hatter replied

“obviously, twinklin’ starts with a t!” the king shot back sharply, “you tryna call me a dunce? drop it, yo!”

“i’m a poor man,” the hatter continued, “and most things started twinklin’ after that—only the march hare said—”

“nah, i didn’t!” the march hare interrupted in a mad rush

“you did, bro!” insisted the hatter

“i deny it, fr!” the march hare fired back

“alright, he denies it,” said the king, “just skip that part, ok?”

“well, anyways, the dormouse said—” the hatter rambled, peeking around for a rebuttal, but the dormouse was fast asleep, not denying a thing

“after that,” the hatter continued, “i sliced some more bread-and-butter—”

“but what did the dormouse say?” one juror blurted out

“dude, i can’t even remember,” said the hatter, clueless

“you must remember, or imma execute you,” the king thundered

the miserable hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter and sank to one knee, “i’m a poor man, your majesty,” he mumbled

“u’re a really poor speaker,” mocked the king

at that moment one of the guinea-pigs cheered, but the officers quickly suppressed it—like, they had this giant canvas bag, tied up with strings, where they shunted the guinea-pig in headfirst and then sat on it, total chaos, lmao

“i’m glad i saw that happen,” thought alice, recalling all those newspaper reports at trial ends about applause attempts being immediately shut down by officers—i never got it till now, so extra funny

“if that’s all you’ve got, stand down,” continued the king

“i can’t go any lower,” said the hatter, “i’m already on the floor, like, literally”

“then just sit down,” the king replied

at that, the other guinea-pig cheered and got silenced right away

“yo, that wraps the guinea-pigs!” alice thought, “now we can vibe properly”

“i’d rather finish my tea,” said the hatter, throwing an anxious look at the queen, who was busy reading the singers list

“you may bounce,” said the king, and the hatter hurriedly left the court so fast he forgot his shoes, lmao

“—and just off with his head outside,” the queen added to an officer, but the hatter was outta sight before anyone could catch him

“summon the next witness!” the king commanded

next up was the duchess’s cook, carrying a pepper-box in her hand, and alice was like, “i know this one” since people near the door started sneezing hard, like, instant meme

“drop your evidence,” said the king

“shan’t,” replied the cook, all curt

the king anxiously eyed the white rabbit, who whispered, “your majesty, you gotta cross-examine this witness,” lowkey

“well, if i must, i must,” the king sighed with mad melancholy, folding his arms and glaring at the cook until his eyes nearly disappeared, then in a deep voice, “what are tarts even made of?”

“pepper, mostly,” said the cook, straight up

“treacle,” mumbled a sleepy voice from behind

“collar that dormouse!” the queen shrieked, “behead that dormouse! boot that dormouse outta court! suppress him! pinch him! off with his whiskers, ikr!”

for a few minutes the whole court was in a wild, confused frenzy trying to eject the dormouse, and by the time things settled, the cook had straight-up vanished

“whatevs!” said the king, relieved as heck, “call the next witness,” and he muttered under his breath to the queen, “really, babe, cross-examine the next one—my forehead is aching from this madness!”

alice watched the white rabbit fumbling over the list, mega curious about the next witness, “—they haven’t dropped much evidence yet,” she mused, when—plot twist—the white rabbit, in a shrill little voice, shouted out the name “alice!” like, oh snap!

chapter xii.  
alice’s evidence

“here!” cried alice, totally forgetting in the wild moment how huge she’d grown in just a few minutes, and she jumped up so frantically she tipped over the jury-box with the edge of her skirt, sending all the jurymen tumbling onto the heads of the crowd below, sprawled out like a globe of goldfish she’d accidentally flipped over last week, total mayhem

“oh, i beg your pardon!” she exclaimed in total dismay, and started scooping them up as fast as she could, ‘cause that goldfish accident was looping in her brain, and she felt they had to be collected and yeeted back into the jury-box ASAP or they’d totally die, no cap

“the trial can’t even proceed,” said the king in a super grave tone, “until all the jurymen are back in their proper places—all of ’em,” he repeated with heavy emphasis, starrin’ daggers at alice

alice peeped the jury-box and noticed that in her mad rush she’d flipped the lizard upside down, and the poor lil thing was wagging its tail sadly, totally frozen. she quickly rescued it and flipped it right again; “not that it matters much,” she thought, “i bet it’d be just as useful in the trial whether it’s one way up or the other,” deadass

as soon as the jury recovered from the upset and got their slates and pencils back, they hustled to scribble a history of the accident, all except the lizard, who was too shook to do anything but sit there with its mouth open, starin’ up at the court roof like it was on permanent freeze

“what do you know about this biz?” the king barked at alice

“nothing,” replied alice, all chill

“nothing whatsoever?” the king prodded

“nothing whatsoever,” alice repeated, solid

“that’s super important,” the king declared, addressing the jury as they began scribbling it down when the white rabbit interrupted, “unimportant, your majesty means, of course,” he said with a kinda respectful tone while makin’ shady faces at the king, lol

“unimportant, of course, i meant,” the king scrambled, then muttered under his breath, “important—unimportant—unimportant—important—” like he couldn’t decide which was lit

some jurors wrote “important,” others “unimportant,” and alice, peeking over their slates, thought, “meh, it don’t even matter.”

at that moment the king, busy scribblin’ in his note-book, cackled, “silence!” and read from his book, “rule forty-two. all persons more than a mile high must yeet outta the court,” total absurdity, lol

everyone stared at alice

“i’m not a mile high,” alice snapped, deadass

“you are,” shot back the king

“nah, more like nearly two miles high,” added the queen, extra

“well, i shan’t bounce then,” said alice, “plus, that ain’t a proper rule—you just made it up right now!”

“it’s the oldest rule in the book,” the king insisted

“then it should be number one,” alice clapped back

the king went all ghostly pale and slammed his note-book shut. “drop your verdict,” he whispered in a low, trembling tone to the jury

“there’s more evidence coming, please your majesty,” said the white rabbit, practically bouncing up, “this paper was just scooped up!”

“what’s on it?” demanded the queen

“i haven’t even opened it yet,” admitted the white rabbit, “but it looks like a letter, written by the prisoner to—to somebody,” vague af

“it must’ve been that,” said the king, “unless it was meant for nobody, which is hella unusual, you know.”

“who’s it directed to?” asked one juror

“it isn’t directed at all,” said the white rabbit, “there’s literally nothing on the outside.” he unfolded the paper and added, “it ain’t a letter after all—it’s a set of verses, wild right?”

“are they written in the prisoner’s handwriting?” queried another juror

“nah, they aren’t,” said the white rabbit, “and that’s the weirdest glitch of all,” while the jury looked all puzzled

“he must’ve copied someone else’s hand,” said the king, and the jury lit up with that smart meme

“please your majesty,” said the knave, “i didn’t write it, and they can’t prove i did—no signature at the end, bro.”

“if you didn’t sign it,” said the king, “that makes it even sus. you must’ve been up to some mischief, or else u’d sign like a real one.”

the court burst into claps—that was the first clever roast the king dropped all day, legit

“that totally proves his guilt,” said the queen

“that proves nothing!” cried alice, “you don’t even know what the hell they’re about!”

“read ‘em,” ordered the king

the white rabbit popped his specs on. “where should i start, please your majesty?” he asked tremulously

“start at the beginning,” the king intoned gravely, “and go on till you hit the end—then stop.”

so the white rabbit read out these verses:—

“they told me u’d rolled up to her,
    and dropped my name to him, lol:
she hooked me up with that solid rep,
    but said i couldn’t swim, big yikes.

he buzzed me that i bailed,
    (we all know that’s facts, fr):
if she pushes the tea again,
    what’s gon’ go down with you, deadass?

i dropped one on her, they hit him with two,
    and u lobbed three or even more;
they all bounced back from him to you,
    though they were totally mine way before.”

…  
(end of verses, total chaotic remix)

if i or she might get caught in this wild, sus af affair, sksksk  
   involvd in this cray situation, no cap, omg  
he’s bettin on u to yeet ‘em outta the matrix, exactly like our squad back in the day, deadass, smh

my vibe was that u had been (pre-fit meltdown mode, fr fr)  
an obnoxious roadblock straight-up blockin the flow between him and our crew, omg, big yikes

don’t spill that she was livin for them, yo,  
   cuz this biz gotta stay hella secret, on god, no leaks fam  
a hush-hush vibe, locked down away from all the npc peeps,  
   just between u and me, deadass, keep it 100

“yo, that’s the dopest evidence drop we got so far,” said the king, rubbin’ his hands like a gigachad cookin’ up memes, “so now, squad, let the jury, like, spill the tea—”

“if any one of y’all can decode this chaos,” said alice (she’d inflated to full chonk mode in like 3 mins, totally not scared to interrupt, fr fr) “i’m droppin sixpence his way, cuz i swear there’s zero meaning in this mess, no cap—extra nonsense all around!”

the jury squad all jotted on their digital slates, “she’s all like, nah, no atom of deep sauce in it,” but none of em even tried to spill any deets, kek, total silent mode

“if it’s all meaningless trash,” said the king, “that’s savin us a world of hassle cuz we ain’t gotta hunt for deep vibes, right? but on the real, i dunno,” he rambled, spreadin verses on his knee while one eye peeped the chaos; “i catch a swipe of meaning in that drip, maybe??—then added, i literally can’t swim—like fr, you can’t even paddle, can you?” he tossed, turnin’ to the knave, lol

the knave gave a sad headshake, like, “do i look swim-worthy, bruh?” he snapped. (lol bc he was straight-up made of cardboard, total npc vibes)

“aight, so far so good,” said the king, mumblin’ over the verses like a glitchy lyric, “‘we know it’s legit—’ that’s the jury, duh—‘i dropped one on her, they tossed him two—’ yo, that gotta be what went down with the tarts, deadass, no cap—”

“but yo, it goes on like, ‘they all bounced back from him to you,’” said alice, drippin’ sass in full meltdown mode

“yo, peep, there they are!” shouted the king, flexin’ his pointer at the table tarts, “can’t get any extra clear than that, fam. then again—‘pre-fit vibes—’ like, u’ve never even caught a fit, babe, right?” he shot over to the queen

“nah, never!!!” roared the queen, flingin’ an inkstand at the lizard like pure rage, sksksk. (poor lil bill stopped scribblin’ on his slate ‘cause his finger wasn’t leakin’ any marks, but then he scrambled back in, usin’ the ink drippin’ down his face until it finally dipped)

“then the words don’t even match your vibe,” said the king, cruisin’ 'round the court with a cheeky grin, then bam—a dead, ghostly silence, total mute mode

“yo, it's a pun af!” added the king in an offended, salty tone, and everyone cracked up, “let the jury drop their hot take,” he repeated like the 20th time today, cringe overload

“nahhh, no wayyyy!” snapped the queen, pure rage mode, “sentence first—verdict later, period, big yikes!”

“omg, such hot garbage AND nonsense!” bawled alice, loud as heck, “like, putting the sentence upfront? deadass, dude!”

“shut your trap, fam!” barked the queen, turnin’ full mad purple like a glitch, sksksk

“i ain't gonna!” fired back alice, all defiant and extra

“off wit her head, bruh!!” the queen hollered at full volume, but literally nobody even stirred, ghost mode activated

“who even cares for u, lmao?” quipped alice (who was now maxed out in size, total titan mode), “u all just a clout pack of cards, fr fr!”

then yo, the whole pack jumped up into the sky, divin’ on her, and she let out a lil’ scream—half terrified, half hella mad—tried to yeet 'em off, but ended up sprawled on the bank with her head chillin’ in her sis’s lap, while her sis gently swiped dead leaves off her face like, “bruh, chill, these leaves are messin’ with my vibe,” lol

“wake up, alice, babe!” cooed her sister, all gentle and soft, “yo, u been in hibernation mode or what? like, mad long nap, frrr!”

“omg, i had the raddest, craziest dream ever!” said alice, spillin’ all the wild adventures she remembered from that insane, chaotic dream you just scrolled through; and when she finished, her sis smooched her and said, “it was lit, def curious, but now bounce to your tea, cuz it’s hella late, fam.” so alice dipped and ran off, thinkin’ how dope that dream actually was, legit vibes, no cap

----------------------------------------

but her sis just sat there, all chill, head propped on her hand, eyeballin’ the sunset like “touch grass, yo,” and deep in thought ‘bout lil alice and her epic adventures, until she too caught a wild dreamwave, and here’s her trippy dream, fr fr:—

first up, she peeped lil alice in her own mini mode, with tiny hands clamped on her knee and those super bright, eager eyes starin’ up into hers—she could legit hear alice’s vibe and that quirky little head toss to keep wild hair out of her peepers, and as she zoned in (or pretended to, tbh) the whole joint flipped into a live remix with all the cray creatures from her sis’s dream squad, skrrt, no cap

the tall grass was boppin’ at her feet as the white rabbit zoomed past like a mad dash—while a scaredy mouse made splashy moves in the next pool—she caught the clatter of teacups as the march hare and his crew munched on a never-ending feast, and then the queen’s shrill, glitchy voice was ordering her poor guests to get dunked into execution mode—then, yo, the pig-baby kept sneezin’ on the duchess’s knee while plates and bowls crashed all over, and then came the epic squeal of the gryphon, the lizard’s slate-pencil squeakin’, and the chokin’ vibes of the suppressed guinea-pigs, all mixed with distant sobs from the sad mock turtle—total chaos, fr

so she just sat there, eyes closed, half trippin’ thinkin’ she was deep in wonderland, even though she knew once she opened ‘em, it’d flip back to dull reality—the grass would just whisper in the wind, the pool would ripple with reed waves, teacups would morph into tinklin’ sheep bells, the queen’s mega shrieks would turn into a shepherd boy’s lowkey shout, and that baby’s sneeze, the gryphon’s scream, and all the other funky noises would shift (she knew it) into the confused clamor of a busy farmyard—while distant cattle lowin’ replaced the mock turtle’s heavy sobs, omg

lastly, she straight-up imagined how her lil sis would eventually glow up into a grown woman, but still rock that pure, lovin’ child heart, like a timeless vibe; and how she’d gather her own lil munchkins, lighting up their eyes with bizarre stories, maybe even droppin’ the long-lost wonderland dream tale, and feel all their basic sorrows and simple joys, reminiscing about her own child-mode and those lit summer days, so extra mfw, no cap

the end, yo.

*** end of the project gutenberg ebook alice's adventures in wonderland, deadass ***

updated editions gonna swoop in and flex replacin’ the old ones, and vintage versions get a name change, fr fr  
making these works from old-school print that ain't locked by u.s. copyright means nobody holds the crown, so the foundation (and u, valid squad) can copy n’ drop these bad boys in the u.s. with zero permission drama and no cash for royalties, on god  
special rules, laid out in the general terms of use, are on deck for copying n’ droppin’ project gutenberg™ electronic works to keep that project gutenberg™ name and vibe intact, no cap  
project gutenberg is a legit registered trademark, and u can’t flex it if u charge for an ebook unless u play by the trademark license rules, includin’ droppin’ royalties for the project gutenberg trademark, smh  
if u ain’t chargin’ for copies of this ebook, following the trademark hustle is mad easy, for real  
u can use this ebook for almost any wild purpose—derivative works, reports, performances, research, you name it  
project gutenberg ebooks can be modded, printed, and free-shipped—you can literally do practically anything in the u.s. with ebooks not locked by u.s. copyright, no cap  
redistribution’s gotta follow the trademark license deets, especially if u plan on commercial drip

start: full license, buckle up, meme mode activated

the full project gutenberg license, big flex

listen up, squad, read dis before u blast or use this work  
to honor the project gutenberg™ mission of free e-work drops, by usin’ or sharin’ this beast (or any work linked with the tag “project gutenberg”), u be signin’ on to ride with all the wild terms of the full project gutenberg™ license, peep it in this file or online at www.gutenberg.org/license, no cap

section 1: general deets on usin’ & droppin’ project gutenberg™ e-works, brace yo self

1.a. so, by reading or usin’ any slice of this project gutenberg™ e-work, u be sayin’ u peeped, vibe with, and accept all these crazy license and trademark/clout terms. if u ain’t down with 'em, u gotta stop usin’ and yeet or destroy every copy in ur stash, fam. if u dropped cash for access and then flipped, u can snag a refund from whoever charged u, as laid out in para 1.e.8, fr

1.b. “project gutenberg” is a legit registered trademark, yo. u can only rock it on or with an e-work if u vibin’ with these terms. there’s some dope stuff u can get away with on most project gutenberg™ e-works even without goin’ full term crazy, check para 1.c. and there’s mad perks if u follow these rules and help keep free future drops of project gutenberg™ e-works, peep para 1.e, for real

1.c. the project gutenberg literary archive foundation (aka “the foundation” or pglaf) holds the compilation copyright on the whole stash of project gutenberg™ e-works. almost all the pieces are in the public domain in the u.s., no cap. if a work ain’t locked by copyright in the u.s. and u chill in the u.s., we ain’t tryna stop u from copyin’, flingin’, performin’, displayin’, or remixin’ it—as long as u yeet all project gutenberg references. obviously, we hope u back the project gutenberg™ mission by sharin’ these vibes free, stickin’ to the rules so the project gutenberg™ tag stays lit. it’s super easy—just keep it in the same format with the full project gutenberg™ license attached when u share it free of charge

1.d. remember, the copyright rules of ur own turf also call the shots on what u can do with this work—laws are always glitchin’ worldwide. if u lurk outside the u.s., peep your country’s rules along with these terms before downloadin’, copyin’, displayin’, performin’, droppin’, or remixin’ any project gutenberg™ work. the foundation ain’t makin’ any promises bout copyright status outside the u.s., so do ur homework, fam

1.e. unless u straight-up removed all project gutenberg shoutouts:

  1.e.1. u gotta display this lit sentence, with clickable links or instant access to the full project gutenberg™ license, super prominently every time any copy of a project gutenberg™ work (any work where “project gutenberg” appears or is linked) is accessed, shown, performed, viewed, copied, or shared:  
    > this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the united states and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. u can copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included with this ebook or online at www.gutenberg.org [https://www.gutenberg.org]. if u ain't in the u.s., u gotta check ur local laws before usin’ this ebook, on god

  1.e.2. if a project gutenberg™ e-work is based on texts that ain't locked by u.s. copyright (no permission notice there), then u can copy and share it in the u.s. for free, no fees, all chill. if u re-share or give access to any work tagged with “project gutenberg”, u gotta either follow the rules in 1.e.1–1.e.7 or get permission for that work and the project gutenberg™ trademark as laid out in 1.e.8 or 1.e.9

  1.e.3. if a project gutenberg™ e-work got posted with the copyright boss's permission, then ur use and sharin’ has gotta vibe with both the rules in 1.e.1–1.e.7 and any extra deets from the copyright holder. those extra terms will be linked to the project gutenberg™ license at the start of the work, so keep it tight

  1.e.4. do not, under any sus circumstances, unlink, detach, or yeet the full project gutenberg™ license terms from this work, any files with parts of this work, or any other work tied to project gutenberg™, no cap

  1.e.5. do not copy, show off, perform, or drop this e-work (or any part) without lobbin’ that sentence from 1.e.1 front and center, with active links for instant access to the full project gutenberg™ license, fam

  1.e.6. u can flip this work into any binary, compressed, markup, open or even closed-source format—including word files or hypertext—but if u drop copies in a format other than “plain vanilla ascii” (or the official type on the project gutenberg™ website), u gotta, without extra charge, provide a copy or a way for users to get the original “plain vanilla ascii” version. every alternate format must sport the full project gutenberg™ license as bossed in 1.e.1, for real

  1.e.7. don't be chargin' money for access, viewin’, displayin’, performin’, copyin', or droppin’ any project gutenberg™ works unless u roll with para 1.e.8 or 1.e.9, on god

  1.e.8. u can charge a legit fee for copies or access to project gutenberg™ e-works provided that:  
    * • u dish out a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits from droppin’ these works, calculated like u do for ur taxes. that fee goes to the project gutenberg™ trademark boss, who, btw, donates those royalties to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation. these royalty payments gotta be made within 60 days after u file ur tax returns and must be clearly labeled as such before sendin’ to the pg literary archive foundation (details in section 4, “information about donations to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation”).  
    * • u give a full refund if a user, within 30 days, hits u up in writing (or via email) sayin’ they ain’t vibin’ with the full project gutenberg™ license—u must make them return or destroy every physical copy and stop usin’ or accessing any other copies  
    * • u also provide, per para 1.f.3, a full refund for any cash dropped for a work or its replacement if a defect is spotted and reported within 90 days of receipt  
    * • and u gotta stick to all other terms of this free distribution agreement for project gutenberg™ works, no cap

  1.e.9. same drill: don't charge a fee for access, viewin’, displayin’, performin’, copying, or droppin’ any project gutenberg™ works unless u follow the rules in 1.e.8 or 1.e.9, on god

  1.e.10. the name “project gutenberg” can't be thrown around in any way that hints at sponsorship, endorsement, or any collab with u, ur squad, or ur work, unless u snag permission from the project gutenberg™ trademark boss, give proper shoutouts, and steer clear of trademark beef, straight up

<end of text, mic drop>

1.e.9. yo so if u wanna charge some coin or yeet a project gutenberg™ e-work or whole squad of works on a diff vibe than what we set in this wild af agreement, deadass u gotta snag written permission from the project gutenberg literary archive foundation – they run the project gutenberg™ trademark scene, fr fr contact that squad as dished out in section 3 below omg skibidi!!!

1.f.

1.f.1. omg so the project gutenberg crew (volunteers and employees, no cap) are grinding hella hard to scout, research copyright drama, transcribe, and proofread works that ain’t hit by u.s. copyright law for the project gutenberg™ stash, but yo even with that mega hustle these electronic drops and the gear they chill on might be glitchin af – complete, half-ass, or straight corrupt data, mad transcription errors, copyright or intel property drama, busted disks, virus vibes, or crazy computer codes that wreck or just can’t be vibed with on ur rig, deadass!!!

1.f.2. yikes limited warranty, disclaimer of damages – so aside from the legit “right of replacement or refund” drop in 1.f.3, the project gutenberg literary archive foundation, the trademark boss, and any squad droppin a project gutenberg™ e-work under this deal be like “nah bruh” on any liability for damages, costs, or legal fees, no cap. u agree that u got zero remedies for negligence, strict liability, warranty breach, or contract cringe except what’s in 1.f.3 – on god the foundation, trademark owner, and any distributor ain’t stepping up for any actual, direct, indirect, consequential, punitive, or incidental damage even if u holler about the possibility, fr fr!!!

1.f.3. limited right of replacement or refund – yo if u peep a defect in this e-work within 90 days of getting it, u can score a refund of the coin (if any) u dropped by shootin a written explain-it-out to the peep u got it from, deadass. if u got it on some physical medium, u gotta yeet that medium back with ur written diss attached – the dude or squad that sent u the glitchy drop might choose to slide a replacement copy instead of refund cash. if u got it electronically, they might give u a second chance to receive the drop instead of refund, but if that second copy is still sus, u can straight-up demand a refund in writing, no extra fix chances, period, skrrt!!!

1.f.4. real talk aside from the 1.f.3 replacement/refund flex, this work is handed over as-is, no extra warranties or promises of any flavor – not express, not implied, whether it’s merchantable or fit for any vibe, nah fam!!!

1.f.5. deadass some states be like “nah” to disclaimers on certain implied warranties or limiting certain damage types – if any disclaimer or limit in this deal clashes with state law, the agreement will flex to the max disclaimer or limit that state law allows, and even if one part goes kaput, the rest stays legit, on god!!!

1.f.6. indemnity – here’s the tea: u agree to cover and hold harmless the foundation, the trademark boss, any agent or employee of the foundation, anyone handing out project gutenberg™ e-work copies per this deal, and all the volunteer squad reppin production, promo, and distribution – they won’t catch any heat for any liability, costs, or legal fees that blow up, whether directly or indirectly, from any of these moves: (a) dropping/distributing this or any project gutenberg™ vibe, (b) remixing, modifying, or messing with any project gutenberg™ work, and (c) any defect u cause, deadass!!!

section 2. information about the mission of project gutenberg™  
yo so project gutenberg™ is basically the icon for free e-work vibes in all kinds of machine-readable formats – from ancient rigs to fresh setups, no cap – it rides on the hustle of hundreds of volunteers and donation homies from every walk of life, fr fr. volunteer energy and cash flow to back these volunaughts are hella crucial to hitting project gutenberg™ goals and keeping the collection free for generations to come. back in 2001, the project gutenberg literary archive foundation was born to lock in a secure, permanent future for project gutenberg™ and all our future fam. if u wanna peep more deets on the foundation and how ur hustle + donations can power this madness, bounce over to sections 3 and 4 and hit up the foundation info page at www.gutenberg.org, skrrt!!!

section 3. information about the project gutenberg literary archive foundation  
yo this squad – the project gutenberg literary archive foundation – is a non-profit 501(c)(3) educational corp, set up under mississippi laws and blessed with tax-exempt status by the internal revenue service, deadass. their ein (federal tax id) is 64-6221541, no cap. all contributions to this lit archive are tax deductible to the max as per u.s. federal laws and ur state’s vibes. the foundation’s biz HQ is chillin at 809 north 1500 west, salt lake city, ut 84116, ring ‘em up at (801) 596-1887. for email deets and the freshest contact info, slide over to the foundation’s official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact, omg!!!

section 4. information about donations to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation  
yo project gutenberg™ is all about that public support grind and literally can’t survive without mad donations to boost its mission of growing the stash of public domain and licensed works that can be free-dropped in machine-readable form – accessible by every gear from crusty old tech to the latest setups, deadass. lotsa small donations (from $1 to $5k, big yikes) are vital for keepin that tax-exempt drip with the irs. the foundation is super committed to following charity laws in all 50 states – but real talk, compliance is a chaotic maze of paperwork and fees, so we only solicit donations in spots where we got written confirmation of compliance, no cap. to send donations or check state compliance status, bounce over to www.gutenberg.org/donate. while we don’t hit up states where the solicitation rules be shady, we def accept unsolicited cash vibes from donors in those areas sliding in with donation offers. international donations are mad appreciated, but we can’t spill tea on tax treatment for outta us cash ‘cause u.s. law alone swamps our tiny squad, fr fr. peep the project gutenberg web pages for current donation hacks and addresses – donations come through checks, online payments, and credit card drops. donate now at www.gutenberg.org/donate, omg!!!

section 5. general information about project gutenberg™ electronic works  
yo so professor michael s. hart was the OG who birthed the entire project gutenberg™ concept – a library of e-works free for anyone to swipe, deadass. for like 40 years he was busy cranking out and distributing project gutenberg™ ebooks with just a chill, loose network of volunaughts riding the wave. these ebooks are often mashed up from a bunch of printed editions, all confirmed to be not under copyright in the u.s. (unless a copyright notice sneaks in), so we ain’t strictly stickin to any single paper edition vibe, no cap. most peeps kick off their journey at our main site with the pg search tool at www.gutenberg.org – check it out, for real. this website drops all the deets about project gutenberg™, from how to slide donations to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation, to how to get in on producing new ebooks, and even how to subscribe to our email newsletter for the latest ebook drops, omg skibidi!!!