yap at me, muse bestie, how dawn rose from her bae tithonus’s bed
to light the mortal world and the big pantheon alike. all the gods stacked up
in zeus’s hot seat, buzzing about odysseus’s meltdown over on calypso’s island,
and athena—always in her feelings about him—just can’t even:

“bro zeus, it’s giving ‘be fr.’ like why is my main man ody trapped
in calypso’s thirst cave? man’s got zero squads, zero ships, homeboy’s down
horrendous. plus, suitors are tryna murder his kid tele on the way back from pylos/sparta.
absolute l.”

zeus is like: “chill, child, we got this. you handle tele—make sure he’s gucci—
i’ll dispatch hermes to drop the vibes on calypso: cut ody loose stat,
he’s due a proper ride home from the phaeacians. problem solved.”

so hermes, winged god bruh, slaps on the gold sneaks, zips down to the salt-blue sea,
touches down by calypso’s drip cave, where the goddess’s orchard blooms big sweet odors,
and she’s weaving with a shimmering golden shuttle, singing new a24-soundtrack type songs.
fire glows on the hearth, the smell of cedar and cypress rolling in waves—peak cottagecore.

hermes steps in, sees the ultimate cozy nymph-haven. calypso’s like,
“aw, golden boy hermes, come in. you never drop by without a reason. want some ambrosia, bestie?”
he’s like, “kinda awkward but i got a letter from papa zeus: time to free ody. no cap.”

calypso flips out: “omg the gods are so petty. you guys pop off whenever a goddess vibes with a mortal.
still, i’m not about to cross big daddy zeus. so ok, i guess i’ll let him go.”

hermes nods, bounces. calypso heads over to the shoreline, where odysseus sits daily, crying big tears,
just gazing at the horizon, depressed vibes. she’s like,
“homie, no more meltdown. i’ll help you build a dope raft so you can sea-surf home,
with some rations so you don’t starve. but i gotta warn you: rough waters ahead.”

ody is sus, all “are you tricking me? i swear i won’t trust you unless you vow no shady business.”
calypso’s like, “relax, i’ll pinky-promise not to do you dirty. i still love you fr, but you want your mortal wifey, so whatevs.”

they feast, talk, do their nightly…stuff, then next morning she gives him the gear: bronze axe, adze, instructions.
dude chops down trees, assembles a raft (it’s basically a mini-ark),
stashes wine, water, and munchies, and sets sail on the twentieth day.

but poseidon, returning from that ethiopian vacay, spots ody on the waves, big mad:
“my man’s escaping me? that’s cringe,” stirs a huge storm.
ody’s raft goes whoosh, mast snapped, everything in meltdown.
he nearly drowns, but a random goddess named ino (aka leucothea) sees him, tosses him a magic veil, says,
“ditch your heavy clothes, wear this scarf under your chest, you’ll be unsinkable.”

ody’s still iffy, tries to cling to the raft until it’s smashed. then forced to swim.
crazy waves pummel him for two whole days. on day three, a random river mouth shows up, and thanks to athena’s help,
he washes ashore. his body is super wrecked, but he’s alive, baby.

he walks inland, finds some thick bushes to crash under. piles up leaves for a diy bed.
like a candle hidden under ashes, ody just huddles there, letting sweet sleep finally pull him down.
and that’s how your boy ends up safe-ish, after nearly unsubbing from life in poseidon’s meltdown mania.
