muse, hype me up again, ‘cause alkinoos just asked me for my tragic lore,
and i’m finna spit it all, no filter, so he can see how i got these trauma badges on lock.
ngl bestie, it kinda hits asl to vibe with a poet who’s literally voice-goated
like this guy in the palace, he’s straight up ~god-tier~ in his lyrical aura.
but lemme not cap: when i recall all the cursed L’s i ate post-troy,
my heartbreak be screaming. so strap in, ‘cause i’m about to over-share.

first off, i’m odysseus, laertes’ kid, big brained, cunning af,
my clout soared to the sky, deadass unstoppable in the cunning department.
my crib? ithaca, that low-key mountainy spot overshadowed by neriton,
where the vibes are scenic but rugged, and the rest of the ionian #archipelago
sits nearby: dulichion, same, shady zakynthos—like sister isles.
it’s a savage little island, no cap, but i love it like no other.
for real, not even goddess-level thirst traps like calypso or the illusions of circe
could make me ghost my homeland and my fam. they both tried to wife me up,
had me borderline “delusionship” with their goddessy baddie energy,
but i was like, “nah.” home hits different, y’all. always.

so let’s get into how my cursed travels began:
after we sacked troy, the wind basically said “lol nope” and blew us to the kikones.
we spam-attacked their city, took loot, wifeys, all that, dividing spoils so no one
felt he got scammed. i told my squad, “we need to dip asap,”
but these clowns were out here big-chilling, tossing back wine, chopping sheep,
till their kikonian homies regrouped, pulled up with synergy and horseback strats,
and put us in a world of hurt. at dawn, we were coping, but by midday, they
popped off, and six from each of my ships got unalived. big yikes.

we bounced, crying over homies who took the L, and set sail again
only for zeus, that major ops energy, to conjure a savage storm from the north,
clouding the sky so thick, it was basically night 24/7. shreds our sails to bits.
we huddled on some random coast for two days, stress-eating and depressed,
then tried to ride out—only for a rogue wave around malea to yeet us way off course.
for nine full days, we drifted like lost npcs. on day ten, we land among the lotus-eaters.
these chill folks ain’t violent, but they vibed us with the lotus, which is so sweet
it makes you forget your mother’s name and ditch all thoughts of going home.
my men who tasted it? totally brainrotten. i had to physically drag them back,
tie them under the benches, and skrrt-sail out before the lotus lulled us all.

then we reached the land of the cyclopes, them giant trolls with zero society,
no laws, no city squares, no farm hustle. they rely on the gods for wheat and vines,
and they do be living in scattered mountain caves like antisocial weirdos,
each dude vibing alone with fam, not caring about neighbors. savage aura.
near there sat a lush island stocked with wild goats—nobody hunts them or claims them;
the goats roam free because cyclopes have no ships or boat-builders,
too n00b to cross the seas. real missed opportunity: the land’s hella fertile,
with meadows, vines, a dope natural harbor, sweet water streams—straight paradise.
anyway, a god steered us in under the cover of darkness. zero moonlight or anything.
we basically crashed on the beach in the gloom, grateful nobody drowned.

next morning, we peeped around the island, bagged some goats
(cue immediate bbq vibes and big wine from our kikones stash),
then from afar, we saw the big time cyclops domain. smoke signals, bleating goats...
the guys were like, “dang, let’s not, chief,” but i was thirsting for that adventurous tea.
so i told the rest to hang back while i took just one crew in the toughest ship,
packed a wine jug—this top-tier ambrosia from maron the priest of apollo,
the kind you cut 1:20 with water and it still slaps. i had a feeling i’d need it
to sauce up any monster we might meet.

we found a monstrous cave by the sea, stuffed with cheese racks, baby goats, lambs,
milk pails—peak dairy fantasy. my men wanted to yolo, snatch the goods,
dip. i was thinking, “nah, let’s see if the cyclops might gift me some next-level xenia.”
spoiler: that was mid-level delulu, but i tried. so we lit a fire, ate cheese,
waited on the occupant. in he came, sporting a giant pile of logs for the night,
slamming it inside with a quake that made us scuttle into the darkest corner.
this was polyphemus, an absolute unit, unstoppable if you ask me.
he sealed the cave with a boulder so big, no squad of twenty wagons could budge it.
then, after milking his flock, guess what—he snatched two of my guys,
like they were freebies, smashed ‘em, devoured them raw. i— bruh, i can’t.

we wept, paralyzed. cyclops soon conked out in a drunk-lion posture.
i toyed with shanking him in the heart, but realized we’d be trapped by the boulder,
so we had to wait for dawn. the next morning, polyphemus woke,
milk-chored the goats, then ate two more of my day-ones and rolled out,
closing the cave again. i hatched a plan: took this massive olivewood club
he kept near the pen—size of a ship’s mast—cut a piece, sharpened, fired it,
hid it under dung. that night, he returned, did his routine, ate more of my men
(talk about a meltdown). that’s when i stepped up with my sweet black wine,
said, “ayo, big guy, have a taste of this real bussin’ nectar. maybe go easy on us?”

he’s like, “mmmm, dope potion, gimme more. also, name’s?” i told him “outis”
(“nobody”), so he promised, “cool, i’ll eat you last, bro.” savage. drunk now,
he toppled over, vomming bits of my homies. that’s when we jammed the burning
stake in his eye, twisting like a drill. he roared so loud the other cyclopes
came around, but he told them “nobody is harming me!” so they noped out,
assuming it’s some god-sent illness. finessed by my name, big bruh.

blind and howling, polyphemus flailed at the cave’s mouth hoping to grab us,
but we were cooking up our next-level smarts. next dawn, he let his rams out
to graze, feeling their backs to catch stowaways. i tied each of my dudes
under the middle sheep, three sheep per man, me under the prime ram.
we slid out undetected. once we all hopped free, we hustled to the ship
with the fat rams, hopped in, rowed out. i messed up by shouting trash talk,
riling him up so he chunked a massive rock that nearly forced us back to shore.
my homies were like, “bffr, you tryna get us killed? chill.” but i barked again,
flexing my real name, odysseus, son of laertes. he freaked out, prayed to poseidon,
“wreck that man. let him come home late, alone, big struggling, if the fates allow it at all.”

with that, he hurled another monstrous rock that almost got us. we still
escaped, and rowed back to the goat island where the rest of my fleet waited,
all hella worried. we parted out the rams so no one was short-changed,
then i offered the prime ram as a burnt sacrifice to zeus. big mistake, i guess,
‘cause the thunder dude cared zero. real savage. that entire day we feasted,
got hammered, then at dawn, we set sail again, hearts heavy for our dead but
kinda hype to still be alive. thus ended that total fiasco in the cyclops cave,
and we peaced out, deeper into the salt-lashed seas, searching for home,
haunted by losses, but determined to vibe on.

and that’s the tea, fr fr.
