yooo so my guy odysseus flung off his crusty rags,
leapt onto that big door sill, bow and arrow stash in hand,
dumping a bunch of pointy shafts at his feet. then he flexed:
“okay losers, i aced the first challenge, now let's see if apollo
hands me a w on a target that no one's ever pegged.”

deadass he took aim right at antinous—who was vibing, mid-sip
of wine from a gold cup, zero idea that big doom was inbound.
odysseus let that arrow fly, slammed him clean in the throat.
dude collapsed, spilled the wine, and basically did a faceplant
into the food. suitors went nuts, jumping up from their seats,
searching for weapons, but they had none. they started shouting,
“bro, you just iced the biggest chad in ithaca—you’re so dead.”

but odysseus glared, savage-mode, and spat: “you punks thought
i'd never come home from troy, trashed my house, messed around
with my maids, tried to wife up my queen, no fear of gods or payback—
well guess what, it’s retribution o’clock.”

they freaked out, but eurymachus tried to plead: “dude, yes, we did
wild stuff, but it was all that clown antinous’s idea. he's gone now, so
please chill. we’ll repay you—cash, gold, everything. let's not kill more.”

odysseus was like, “nah. i’m not about your hush money. you either fight
or run—but i see no one outrunning this.” that hammered it home.
eurymachus roared to the suitors: “strap up, let’s flank him, or he’ll
kill us all.” he rushed with his sword, but odysseus shot him right in the liver.
he crashed over the table, blood splattering. amphinomus tried to charge,
but telemachus speared him from behind.

telemachus ran to get gear: “pops, i’m grabbing shields, spears, and helmets
for me, eumaeus, and philoetius.” odysseus nodded, still sniping suitors with arrows,
one after another dropping dead. once his quiver was empty, he set his bow aside,
strapped on a war shield, put a gleaming helm on his head, crest nodding menacingly,
and seized two spears.

melanthius the traitor goat-herd tried to get more weapons for the suitors,
but eumaeus and philoeitius ambushed him in the storeroom, hog-tied him,
hung him up so he’d “enjoy” a slow, painful time-out. eumaeus basically trolled him,
saying, “sleep tight, buddy, hope the dawn sees you real comfy.”

back in the hall, athena showed up in mentor’s form, giving moral support.
the suitors shrieked that they'd kill odysseus, telemachus, and mentor together,
but athena just scolded odysseus a bit, testing him. then she soared to the rafters
like a swallow, letting them prove their might.

the suitors kept flinging spears, but athena was deflecting them.
odysseus, telemachus, and their two sidekicks launched their own javelins,
hitting suitor after suitor—guys dropped like flies. blood painted the floor.
they panicked like cows going crazy from a horsefly in spring.
our squad pounced, hawk-like, slashing away, turning the suitors into corpses
in a big gory pile.

leodes, the suitor’s so-called priest, tried hugging odysseus’s knees,
begging for mercy: “bro, i told them not to do these stunts, i’m innocent.”
odysseus was not having it: “boy, you prayed i’d never return, yeah? too bad,”
and sliced his head off.

phêmius the bard cringed in the corner, set aside his lyre, and also pleaded,
“i was forced to sing for them. i’m innocent, i swear. your kid can vouch.”
telemachus jumped in: “pops, spare this one. he’s just the singer. same with the herald,
medon. they served me when i was little.”
odysseus nodded: “fine, you guys get out in the courtyard, i got mopping up to do.”

they scurried outside by zeus’s altar, peeking in terror at the mayhem inside.
odysseus prowled for any survivors but found them all face-down in blood,
like fish flopping on the shore. he turned to telemachus: “bring eurycleia, gotta handle some housekeeping.”

the old nurse came in, saw bodies everywhere, about to wail. odysseus shut her down:
“don’t gloat over dead men. the gods handled them for their evil. now tell me which
maids dissed me and penelope.” she said, “twelve have been disrespectful, ignoring me
and your queen. let’s deal with them.”

odysseus then told telemachus and the guys: “make them dump the bodies outside,
clean up all the gore, then we handle those traitor maids.” so they carried out the corpses,
scrubbed the chairs and floors. telemachus decided they wouldn’t get a quick or gentle end;
he strung them up with a ship’s rope in the courtyard. they twitched just a moment.
then they ripped melanthius apart, feeding his bits to dogs. nasty.

finally, they washed themselves and lit a big fire to fumigate the hall.
eurycleia summoned the rest of the women, who rushed in, hugging odysseus,
crying happy tears. he was emotional too, recognizing every one of them,
knowing the real ones had stuck by him while he was away. thus ended the suitors,
and the real retribution era.
