so the achaian squad was flexing hard by their curvy ships,
decking out their gear around you, achilles, son of peleus, hype never sated,
while on the other side, the trojans lined up at the edge of the plain,
and zeus was like “yo themis, rally the gods for a meeting up on many-folded olympus.”
she zoomed everywhere delivering the invite, no deity left behind—
all the rivers except okeanos, all them nymphs from the groves
and water springs, even the meadows, they all arrived at cloud-gatherer zeus’s crib,
this fancy hall all polished by hephaistos’s big-brain craftsmanship.

so the gods pulled up, and not even the earth-shaker poseidon ghosted,
rolling in from the sea to plop down among them. then he asked zeus straight-up,
“why the call, big thunder-man? you scheming again about these trojans and achaian dudes?
‘cuz that war is on the brink, no cap.”

and zeus, lord of sky-cloud vibes, answered,
“poseidon, you see right through me. i do care about these mortals,
even though they’re basically playing themselves. but me, i’ll just watch from olympus,
chilling and enjoying the show. the rest of y’all can go—
help trojan or achaian, whichever side y’all vibe with.
real talk, if swift-footed achilles fights the trojans solo,
their city might get absolutely canceled in record time,
especially now that he’s big mad about his bro’s demise.
i’m worried he might just steamroll that trojan wall beyond fate’s measure.”

that’s how the son of kronos sparked the unstoppable beef.
the gods set out, each rolling with whichever side they repped:
hera joined the achaeans near the ships, with athena and poseidon the land-shaker,
plus hermes the lit messenger, cunning af,
and hephaistos hobbled along too, flexing that glow, even if he had a limp.
on the trojan side, we got ares the plumed war-god,
apollo the archer with luscious locks, artemis the arrow-slinger,
leto, xanthos, and aphrodite with her sly grin.

long as the gods kept distance from mortal hustle,
the achaeans gained serious clout—achilles had re-emerged after that big break from the conflict,
and the trojans legit trembled, seeing the speedster shining like war-god ares himself,
decked out in brand-new unstoppable armor.
but once the olympians mingled among the armies, oh man—
confusion soared, eris screamed, athena hollered from the trench or from the beach,
while ares roared near the trojan lines, spurring them from the highest city walls to the stream of simois.
like, both sets of gods stoked the fire, unleashing a savage spirit in mortals.
father zeus rumbled from the sky, and poseidon shook the vast earth beneath,
making ida’s ridges quake, along with troy’s walls and the achaian ships.
even hades freaked underworld-style, worried the quake would rip open his realm,
exposing the dead’s grim lair to immortals and mortals (which the gods kinda hate, not gonna lie).
that was the level of cosmic ruckus when the gods squared up.

so basically apollo faced off with poseidon,
athena glared across at ares,
artemis the loud with golden arrows sized up queenly hera,
and hermes stared down leto, while hephaistos eyed the swirling river xanthos.
thus, each deity stood ready to brawl another deity.

but achilles? man’s wanted hektor’s head on a platter more than anything.
still, apollo hyped up aeneas, giving him major boss energy,
disguising his voice as prince lykaon, telling aeneas,
“yo, how ‘bout those big claims you made at trojan banquets, flexing you’d 1v1 achilles?
time to step up or shut up, big dog.”
and aeneas responded, “bruh, i remember that man chasing me down ida slopes.
if it wasn’t for father zeus hooking me up, i’d have been dead.
achilles always has a god running coverage. i might pass on that fight.”

apollo retorted, “dude, you’re the son of aphrodite—he’s from the sea nymph thetis,
and last i checked, zeus outranks old man of the sea.
go off, my guy, push that bronze spear. don’t let him talk you down.”
then apollo breathed unstoppable swagger into aeneas.

white-armed hera spotted aeneas heading full tilt for achilles,
and she huddled up with poseidon and athena:
“y’all see that? apollo just unleashed aeneas at swift achilles.
should we yank him back, or do we help achilles frontally crush him?
we came here so my golden boy wouldn’t catch any cheap L’s from the trojans,
but also to ensure he gets only the fate the spool of destiny gave him.
we can’t let him die before that, but if achilles acts too extra,
some god has to check him.”

poseidon said, “no need to big mad, hera.
i don’t want some all-out cosmic battle. we’re top-tier, but let’s not blow up the family.
we can just watch from the side. if ares or apollo tries to hamper achilles,
then yeah, we can throw hands. otherwise, let men handle their own drama.”

so they posted up by herakles’s old vantage wall the trojans built,
while over on kallikolon ridge, apollo and ares perched.
both squads of gods scoping the scene, waiting on father zeus to set the vibe.

the entire plain glinted with men in bronze, horses stomping the ground so hard it rattled,
like mass hype: two champions in the thick of it, aeneas and glorious achilles,
both jonesing to square up.
aeneas threatened first, shielding his chest with that big shield, spear out front.
achilles came at him like a hungry lion who’s done with that stealth mode,
flashing fangs, charging the whole assembly out of pure fury.
that’s how pumped achilles was to meet the mighty aeneas.

once they got close, swift-footed achilles hollered:
“yo aeneas, what’s got you stepping out solo from the mob to face me?
you craving priam’s throne or some farmland gift if you kill me?
bro, priam’s got legit heirs, not about to pass the crown to you.
maybe the trojans promised you farmland by the river if you take me down?
hate to break it to you, that’s delusional. last i remember, i already had you running from ida.
zeus saved your hide that time. now i doubt any god’s bailing you out again.
you better back up, for real.”

aeneas shot back:
“i’m not some newbie you can scare with petty talk, achilles. i know about your lineage, i know my own.
folks say you’re son of peerless peleus and sea-bride thetis,
and i’m a legit child of anchises and aphrodite.
in other words, we both got fancy blood. let’s skip the big mouth fest—
you’d need a hundred-oared ship to carry all the possible insults.
words are cheap, we both want the real brand: fight me, or hush.”

that said, aeneas hurled his spear at the center of achilles’s shield,
the bronze point boomed off it, but the divine gold, gift from the gods, wasn’t about to split.
then achilles let his own spear rip, punching through aeneas’s shield layers.
the trojan ducked, freaked out, and the spear stuck in the earth.
achilles sprang forward, brandishing his sword, bellowing.
aeneas hoisted a massive rock—two men nowadays couldn’t handle that chunk, but he swung it easy.
and we might’ve seen aeneas meet his end, or achilles get brained,
except poseidon had those 3000 IQ reflexes:
“dang, i feel for big aeneas. apollo told him to fight, but that fool’s about to get rekt.
and aeneas prays to us gods, always. he doesn’t deserve to die for someone else’s war.
gotta yank him out, or zeus might be heated if achilles kills him.
this guy’s FATED to lead troy’s future line after priam’s clan is done. no cap.”

cow-eyed hera said, “fine, do what you want, big wave-lord.
but remember my vow with athena, not to show trojans mercy when troy finally burns.”

poseidon waded into the fray, cast a blind over achilles’s eyes just for a heartbeat,
pulled the spear out of aeneas’s shield and teleported him away,
making him vault over horses and men like a glitch in the matrix,
dropping him safe at the edge of the big battlefield.
then the sea-god whispered, “aeneas, next time don’t square up with achilles.
your day will come after his, but now, that man is unstoppable—get it?”
poseidon vanished, clearing the haze from achilles’s vision.

swift achilles blinked, saw his spear lying on the ground, no aeneas in sight,
and spat, “dang, guess he’s got the gods on speed dial.
whatever. i won’t chase him again. i’ll savage the rest of these trojans.”

with that, he jumped back into the lines, telling every achaian,
“yo, push up! it’s time to do them trojans dirty—i can’t personally kill each one,
not even if i had ares or athena’s unstoppable grind.
but i’ll do my best. anyone who steps to me is signing up for an L.”

over on the trojan side, glorious hektor rallied them:
“trojans, do not get cold feet about that big bully achilles.
even gods can be faced down if you got heart.
achilles can’t do everything he yaps about. if he tries, i’ll step up,
even if it’s like wrestling with fire or iron.”

but apollo slid up to hektor and hissed, “bro, maybe not face him alone.
just wait till he’s tangled with the crowd—live to fight another minute.”
hektor took that hint, pulling back into the masses.

achilles dived into trojan ranks, yelling like a demon. first kill: ifition, otryn’s kid,
got him dead-center in the skull, split it wide. dude hit the ground like a sack.
achilles gloated, “yeah, buddy, guess you’re not going home to lake gygaia. rest easy.”
then demoleon, son of antenor, got skewered through the temple—helmet worthless.
then hippodamas tried fleeing, but caught a spear in his spine,
and he roared like a bull getting dragged for the sacrifice, poseidon’s favorite vibe.
polydoros, youngest son of priam, super-fast but naive, took a spear to the back,
that shining belt worthless before achilles’s unstoppable wrath.
he collapsed, intestines slipping through his hands. yikes.

hektor saw polydoros in that gore, and fury lit his eyes.
he charged achilles, brandishing his spear. achilles saw and practically salivated,
“oh, that’s the man who killed my bestie. time to settle this.”
and he shouted at hektor, “come closer so we can expedite your funeral, man.”

hektor didn’t flinch, but his spear toss got deflected by grey-eyed athena,
it fell back at his feet. achilles lunged to end him, screaming war cries.
apollo snatched hektor away in a swirl of thick mist.
three times achilles stabbed empty air, cursing out loud,
“man, you slipped again, you dog, thanks to your sugar-daddy apollo.
i’ll end you eventually if any god’s on my side, just not now. next trojan, step up!”

so he went on, skewering dryops, then demouchos, massive son of philetor,
then the sons of bianos, laogonos and dardanos, dropping each from their chariots,
alastor, who tried a cringe plea for mercy—didn’t matter, achilles gutted him anyway,
moulios took a spear through the ear, ouch, and echeklos got his skull cracked by that heavy sword.
deukalion lost an arm at the elbow, then a head at the neck, spinal cord spurting.
rigmos from thrace got a spear to the gut, tumbled from his chariot,
his squire fell too, speared in the back.

like a wildfire raging deep in a valley, unstoppable winds swirling flames,
that’s achilles, unstoppable, soaking the earth black with trojan blood.
just as a pair of broad-browed oxen crush white barley on a well-ordered threshing floor,
hooves pounding the grain fine, so did achilles’s horses trample trojans and their shields.
his axle and chariot rim spattered with gore as lumps of flesh flicked up from the wheels,
and achilles raged on, thirsting for more glory, his invincible hands all caked in blood.
